welcome to the W show we've got a great
show for you guys today and look Luke I
know we have this thing where I pick two
topics for the show and then you pick
two topics for the show and you're
always all like man those two topics
were the ones that I wanted to do so I
think I have the solution okay I'll just
do all the topics we're going to be
talking about the framework 16 Apple
complying with the EU but like only sort
of not really the HP CEO saying the
quiet part out loud we're going to be
talking about uh uh uh uh uh now you're
the one searching crap this is hard yeah
there's like two good
[Laughter]
ones okay pick one more go uh I was
going to do teenager criminally charged
for Snapchat joke yeah really wow well
wasn't a good joke though that's true
okay
[Music]
the show today is brought to you by ag1
Squarespace and a vessie why don't we
jump right into our headline topic which
is of course Apple's compliance with the
eu's regulations that are forcing them
to behave less like a Walled Garden and
more like a f garden with Barb Wire
Around It Dummy um yeah
so okay apple is being accused of
malicious compliance with the European
Union's digital markets act or dma after
detailing its plans to add support for
thirdparty app stores thirdparty payment
systems and browser engines other than
Safari to iOS in the European Union in a
news release Apple repeatedly emphasized
that the dma opens new avenues for
malware fraud and scams and illicit and
harmful content and other privacy and
security threats now here's here's what
I'd like to know yeah Apple's a very
privacy and Security First company
aren't they yes so then with all the
resources that they have with the are
they at hundreds of billions
of dollars of cash reserves right now
probably yeah and with all the with all
the people in the tech industry that are
in need of work right now I would like
to know Apple what investments you're
making to ensure that as an iPhone user
in the European Union I'm not going to
be affected by this
stuff no seriously though Apple's one of
those companies that this is very unlike
them to acknowledge any potential flaw
in their product even if it is caused by
compliance with a third party regulation
they don't like to talk about that yeah
they like to talk about safety and
security and privacy and the Apple
experience it you can tell they are at
they are at the desperation stage to try
to do something about this um however
apple has a
solution Apple has instituted multiple
safeguards inqu including requiring
Apple authorization of all developers on
alternative of alternative app
marketplaces a letter of credit of a
million EUR in order to launch an
alternative app
store disclosure of alternative payments
data
notorized
humans so basically apple is saying okay
you can have your own store but the only
way that we could possibly ensure the
security of the iPhone is if um we're
basically like in charge of it and also
you pay us a bunch of money a lot um
Apple will be reducing their current
fees a 10% fee for subscriptions a 177%
fee for digital goods and services and
an additional 3% for using Apple's
payment system however Apple will also
be adding a new core technology fee so
once an app Hits 1 million installs its
devs will have to pay 50 cents is that
what they're actually called Euro cents
yeah I don't know 50 half of a Euro for
every new user who installs it on
iOS
annually that is wild okay anyway the
app can be reinstalled by the same user
for no charge for 12 months though wow
it's actually Euro cents this applies to
paid apps and free apps Apple says they
will have an install verification
mechanism to avoid install spam because
I'm sure it'll be like totally in their
interest to ensure that you know the
experience on third party app stores is
really good that they've really they've
really telegraphed that um Apple has
provided a fee calculator and some devs
have found that under some circumstances
Apple could take as much as 60% of their
yearly Revenue nice developers of
alternative app stores need to pay the
CTF for every every first annual
installation including the first
[Laughter]
million oh man but don't worry don't
worry there's an
alternative if developers don't like
this deal right good well they can stay
under Apple's current business terms and
remain exclusively on the App Store
where no thirdparty marketplaces or
Payment Systems will be allowed so is
the only way to get an alternative store
onto the the platform by Distributing
the alternative store through the App
Store I actually do not know that is a
really good that's what it sounds like
through their
terms cuz how could they charge
you if you didn't get it through the App
Store Luke how does that make any sense
Luke I'm not sure I'm I'm sure that uh
when it comes when it comes to
collecting your money um I think Apple
will find a way it's unclear how Apple
will authorize and
distribute the alternative marketplaces
yeah huh maybe their hope is that this
deal will be technically compliant with
the eu's guidelines not guidelines laws
uh but be so bad that nobody will
actually do it Tim Tim Sweeney has been
going off has he oh yeah yeah oh man
he's been he's been going off and to be
clear I do not agree with Tim Sweeney
about everything in fact we've like had
personal beef at one point a while ago
but yeah but what he is right about just
just because just because I don't agree
with someone once doesn't mean I can't
agree with them when they say something
correct like I'm not saying Hitler was
right
no I was going to say something specific
I don't know maybe he said something
about how trains should be on time or
something I don't know I don't actually
I don't actually I haven't memorized any
any quotes Okay uh my point is just that
just because I disagree with someone
about something doesn't mean I can't
acknowledge when they're right about
something maybe the chair was comfy and
Mr
Sweeney the chair some people will get
that it's fine oh okay Mr Sweeney is
definitely Luke please control this
man yeah Luke some people got it good
okay look what you've done
what how so so Mr Sweeney is 100%
correct here when he says that Apple is
is absolutely behaving in an
anti-competitive way the EU has called
them out on it in a very in a very clear
way and Apple has gone out of their way
to ensure that the manner in which
they've complied with the eu's new
regulations is as awful as humanly
possible also we had talked before about
okay if apple is forced to allow
additional Marketplace and all of that
well how is it going to affect people
outside the EU it looks like the answer
is not one bit Apple will be maintaining
its monopolistic Behavior anywhere that
it is allowed to so if you want anything
to change and change it can and should I
mean Apple has demonstrated that they
can have lower subscription fees as long
as they can charge you a what what is it
a um core technology fee man this is
this is bizarre like why why do why do
people defend this kind of double
dipping Behavior I don't know you see a
lot of it though it's like it's triple
dipping actually first they charge the
user for the device then they charge the
developer just to have a developer
account oh no we're up to quadruple
dipping now for then they charge the
developer to have a developer account
then they charge you a core technology
fee if you actually have a very
successful app then they charge you a
10% fee on subscriptions 177% for
digital goods and
services at what point does it end well
you also have to use their payment
system like we mock this kind of thing
when it's the cable when it's the cable
company but realistically most people
have as many options for cable companies
as they do for major cell phone
platforms and so the people who say well
Apple's not a monopoly because Android
exists it's
like okay okay okay right but that
doesn't you can have a duopoly then it
doesn't change the you can have
monopolistic Behavior people compare it
to steam and I'm I'm not here to defend
steam's 30% take either but not even a
little but on a computer you could use
things that aren't steam well yeah that
and steam actually has as far as I can
tell steam doesn't charge epic games
money to sell games on their platform no
And as far as I can tell steam doesn't
charge game devs any ongoing fees for
the original purchase of the game so you
have a game that's 160 GB you could
download that game now and forever not
to mention all the cloud synchronization
of your save files remember Nintendo is
going to charge you like what eight
bucks a month per user to sync your
Cloud save to sync your saves to the
cloud like steam is actually operating a
platform that actually delivers value to
the user I want to buy games on Steam
whereas what is Apple actually doing I
mean yeah they handle downloading sure
but the
infrastructure by comparison when we're
talking downloads that are 160 gigabytes
in many cases and we're talking
downloads that are 160 megabytes and
that's a pretty decent sized app I mean
you'll get multi- gigabit H gigabit
you'll get multi- gigabyte mobile apps
uh especially for games but there'll be
three or four typically not not hundreds
and to be clear I just want to make this
clear Apple's operating at an enormous
scale on the App Store but don't kid
yourself so is valve yeah gaming it's
kind of a thing yeah um yeah and like uh
people are bringing up like oh you can
buy an Android and it's like okay so
there's the whole duopoly thing also
we're talking about Platforms in general
we don't think Android is necessarily
better off here the the uh Play Store is
also terrible um just you can
technically it's not a very clean
process but you can sideload on on
Android um and the the steam example
this would be like if the only way that
you could get any apps on Windows was
the Microsoft store I know I just gave
everyone nightmares I apologize for that
um but it would be as if that was the
only way and for steam or something else
to exist Microsoft is going to take a
cut of it
yeah just for valve having the privilege
to be allowed to have steam yeah that's
pretty crap is that a thing that you
would like is that a thing that you
would defend do you think that would
have
made would that have made the PC what it
is today someone said you mean like on
Windows RT I know practically nothing
about Windows RT but if that's how it
would work that's not something I would
defend uh does Windows RT even exist
anymore I don't know Windows RT is a
mobile operating system designed by
first unveiled January 2011 oh final
release January 10th 2023 12 months ago
so is it is it still a thing is it not a
thing I suspect it's supported extended
support was ended January 10th 2023
never mind so yeah that's how good it is
sick cool
nice yeah windows for would be the
replacement for Windows RT uh and my
understanding is nothing on Windows for
arm would prevent you from just
downloading an application and
installing it in fact I was uh man was I
was installing something the other day I
was saying f s mode but you can turn S
Mode off can you not yeah yeah so like
what are you talking about yeah if I can
if I can voluntarily make my phone only
allow apps to be installed from the app
store that's fine like this is I don't
know man this is like the the I don't
understand these arguments this is well
okay a lot of the a lot of the Apple
argument boils down to well you you do
have a choice I I like the locked down
experience sure and it's like right so
then sit down and shut the up yeah
I don't yeah and I should be allowed to
install whatever software I feel like on
this thing that I mean it's not it's not
like apple gives away the iPhone if
Apple gave away the iPhone this would be
a completely different conversation like
okay for example remember that TV Luke
that TV that uh watches you and plays
ads or whatever if that's the deal okay
the hardware is free you watch as much
TV as you want and they're like yeah
we're going to we're going to bombard
you with ads it's going to be pay to
playay for anyone who wants to be part
of this ecosystem and have their ads
displayed or whatever it's like yeah
sure fine but my understanding when I
pay full pop and don't kid yourself
Apple's not discounting the iPhone
they're not subsidizing the cost of the
iPhone with the app store they are just
they they are charging as much if not
more they're taking more margin than
pretty much any I think any other
handset maker as far as I can tell
um so when I pay full price for
something my understanding and your
understanding should be that it belongs
to you and so the fact that any one is
not offended by this that anyone sees
this behavior and goes yeah this is good
it's just baffling to me and if you make
the choice to only use the app store by
all
means but when I say I shouldn't have to
again sit down and shut the up it's that
simple
yeah
nice oh Dan's not here to move the the
the the cards how will we know what to
do he's supposed to tell us through
our well we don't need 10 more minutes
because we both agreed that apple is
being buttheads yeah I'm really looking
forward to trying the Vision Pro though
yeah yeah real heavy yeah we're getting
our hands on uh we're getting our hands
on one February 4th I think ours arrives
you got to do neck workouts um okay I I
am not I don't know how exaggerated this
I am not doing any neck workouts I am
going to I'm going to go in cold and see
if it's overblown as someone who
regularly wears headphones and who
regularly
vrs I suspect that it's not going to
bother me as much as people who do not
regularly V how much does it weigh
versus like an index but I have heard it
is quite heavy
yes please show Dan cam okay a wild Dan
appears there's Dan oh sorry I mean a
wild
um NAD appears a non non a nonin
cringing um all all resemblance is uh
coincidental does anyone see where I'm
going with this uh I don't really get
the point we we copied the it's a very
similar character model but it's not the
same thing oh so like pal world
I'm don't worry about it n stands for
not a
Dan I may of AI
now yeah I I apologize in advance for
the fact that NAD is probably going to
stick as a nickname for
you it could be worse Dan fine yeah wait
what uh looks like the index weigh more
yeah it looks like the index weighs more
than the Vision Pro so it's going to be
fine then yeah so it's probably going to
be fine what's everyone freaking out
about I it's apple right so on the one
hand you have the things that Apple does
that are actually really scummy yeah and
then you've got people that are just
like no man this seems fine and then on
the other hand you've got what appears
to be a very compelling product that
could change Computing we'll see and
people are like oh my God it needs to be
cooled they need Cooling in it and
there's like there's glass lenses is and
glass is heavy
H it's like people are saying cuz it's
not as well balanced and and because the
strap apparently isn't as good the index
ain't that well balanced I I would have
hoped that Apple would get the strap
right though I mean then again that's
like I don't know kind of their thing is
they have okay accessories and then
other people fill in the gaps so maybe
it's maybe it's fine um one thing I'm
really excited for though is that
apparently it comes with Apple's
cleaning cloth
now we missed the initial outrage train
on the $40 cleaning cloth oh it's
included though yeah yeah yeah so we so
we we were like well realistically
there's no point making a video about
this because people have kind of got it
out of their system now but it's not
like it ever went away so I'm going to
get an opportunity to check out Apple's
cleaning cloth nice yeah yeah I can't
believe it's free I'm pretty stoked on
that um I I I I doubt it's going to get
much airtime in the video I've I've kind
of said my piece about Apple's pricing
we did a video a number of years ago
when they announced the $700 wheels for
the old Intel Mac Pro was that the 2019
Mac Pro or whatever I have to memorize
years instead of just Generations
because I don't know Apple things um
where where I basically talked about how
it's it's it has yeah it has I I
actually forget my point but it was a
good point and it pretty much explained
why Apple prices things the way they do
it's because they want to be a luxury
brand they're a consumer electronics
brand but they really really really
really really want to be a luxury brand
and that's an image that they project um
and it's an image that some people buy
like it's the whole blue bubble green
bubble thing has always been baffling to
me you can get iPhone for like $100 on
eBay that'll like you get your bubble
color whatever who cares um I I they
should change the shade I don't really
see how on the generation of
phone can
you not give them ideas or no no the
newest the newest one should be the
deepest blue and as your phone ages it
should
fade you that way that way they don't
have to like update they're never going
to like run out of Blues you know
because it'll just get worse UV reactive
paint kind of
thing uh
Luke you do know that people from Apple
watch this show right they don't
acknowledge us but I have heard from
people at
Apple chat's so
mad you got to have dude the new
generation of phone comes out your
bubbles are going to be less blue so you
guys can see why it's a good thing that
Luke is not
evil cuz if he was he'd be an evil
genius
oh I could work at the geni please mute
Luke if he can do it to you you need to
do it D yeah Dan I think we've
established now that I should have a
Luke mute
button I don't know about that I think
Dan's with me on this
Dan I'm setting it up right now thank
you he would too good guy
Dan uh all right what's our next topic
here okay okay this one's going to be
kind of open-ended okay our topic is the
framework 16 yeah so what I have only
spent about two minutes with it okay I
actually haven't watched our review yet
okay I didn't read it okay so I would
like you I haven't even read our topic
notes sure I would like you to tell me
if it's any
good okay do you want me to silently
read the topic notes or okay because
there's positive and negative points all
right so yeah the framework 16 is
finally out we released a full review
this week which was written and hosted
without pretty well received by the
community by the way lus involvement and
yes I do I do believe it was other
outlets have reviewed the 16 quite
positively Alex wro from Tom's guide
called it the laptop I'd buy for myself
some of the positive points are extreme
modularity and repairability framework
says that the graphics card can be
swapped in just a few minutes which both
we and The Verge were able to replicate
that I've tried remember I have played
around with the like something yeah like
a mechanical sample right quite a while
back so even ear yeah but I haven't
touched uh I haven't touched I have
spent about 2 minutes with the final one
that we that we have here great future
proofing potential and customizability
compared to other laptops of note the
fully customizable keyboard deck and six
expansion card slots to the framework
13s 4 good screen quality easily
outperformed similar laptops running the
same graphics card in terms of cooling
and then we come to the negative points
okay now hold on a second there's a
couple of things here that from just
chatting with people internally I I know
that we didn't necessarily agree with in
our video so one of them is that Jake
had some concerns about backlight bleed
or not bleed but like a um un even
backlighting at the edges of the screen
did anybody else have any kind of
feedback on that like I'm this is this
is a highly interactive section guys I
want to hear from you in the chat do
other people have this laptop or are you
asking about other people's reviews
understood yeah cuz the Verge according
to Noki uh the one and only timestamp
guy people are suggesting that we react
to the video live we would be able to do
that cuz it's our own video The Verge
rated it five out of 10 the screen no
the whole thing whoa yeah so not
everybody gave it a good review although
The Verge did complain about crashing
issues
um so I would say that would probably
significantly impact the score and I
didn't I didn't from the conversations
I've had with plof and Jake they didn't
say anything about crashing on our unit
and John uh John from the lab didn't
bring it up with me either interesting I
fix it according to focus Forte and DNA
gecko I fix it I gave it a 10 out of 10
for repairability I guess okay people
want a live reaction Dan is that
something you can do from there because
Dan is not in the studio oh The Verge
has some interesting points here I'm I'm
going to jump to my screen real fast
yeah yeah for sure I I want to know
what's going on man this this is my
investment yo that doesn't look good
what is that he's trying to lift the
screen with one finger oh which I could
do with like this one and it's not going
to do that uh I mean this one does that
much yeah
look that doesn't look like as much as
in that photo is it because of the angle
it's taken
it no it's less than that yeah it's less
than that that is a lot of of screen
Bend you're going to have a little bit
you know if you try to lift a screen by
the corner you're going to have a little
bit but that in the photo is quite a lot
um I don't see where they did the
natural rating I think it's at the very
top I like your sound effects thank you
uh that's not the very top Luke
oh yeah okay I actually don't see
it contrl F5 oh there it is GRE green
big green box got it he's got this
what's it out of 10 okay yeah not five
yeah they said the good is fully user
repairable unprecedented customization
competent mid-range gaming performance
and excellent 16 X10 screen they said
the bad was regularly froze during
testing additional strange glitches
often run hot and loud and some of the
panels feel flimsy okay I think we need
to live react to this okay Dan is that
something we can do live Rea you really
got to do is pull up the video on your
laptop and then I guess that counts as a
reaction
Channel um okay well it's it's our own
video yeah yeah it's fine to react to
your own video I don't know okay I have
I have pulled it up I have pulled it up
uh what am I uh what am I supposed to do
now I just play it will Luke be able to
hear it I think I'll send it through
your headphones okay okay we're going to
we're going to try it we're going to try
it AIO from your laptop yet you don't
are you sure well I'm not playing it yet
it's 18 and a half minutes are we going
to react to the whole thing okay uh we
could watch it
1.75 sure okay that'll only take like 13
14 minutes then I'm not going to have uh
oh yeah I guess I can watch it there
okay sure yeah cool okay we good I've
got audio from you elsewhere you have
audio from me elsewhere what does that
even mean yeah I didn't even fart that's
good uh there oh apparently the Verge
didn't have a full production unit did
we have a full production unit yeah The
Verge posted an update that they are
getting a full production unit to redo
the review oh where is that I don't oh
man I could have told framework not to
send a preprod unit for a review yeah
they probably shouldn't have done that
was an air completely unforced where is
this
post uh where did they say this I don't
know uh noted we're certainly committed
to make a from the total list of issues
I don't want to just like believe chat
right
away okay oh yeah okay post from Sean
Hollister framework will send us another
lap another framework 16 and here's what
it will fix we told framework we had
several different stability issues uh so
I was a little frustrated to see the
company CEO suggest I only encountered
one but I'm happy to say framework will
send the Verge a final production unit
with quite a list of hardware and
software fixes okay okay I don't I don't
know if they said that they're oh
apparently the review units were
pre-production units with known
issues interesting okay well guys look
I'm uh okay let's watch it then shall we
Dan we good to go I think so okay good
luck everybody hold on one sec I just
want to I just want to fix the the quote
from earlier people said like oh they're
going to redo their review and stuff I
don't think I don't see them actually
saying that um and this looks like it's
Luke laptop yeah um so this is a post
from Sean Hollister saying these
things um but then it says it's linking
a Reddit
thread I don't see anywhere that says
like we're going to redo our review it
did say in the review that um they would
be open to re-evaluating if the issues
are fixed I think but that doesn't
necessarily mean they're going to do it
I mean as someone who I just want to
make sure I didn't quote them
incorrectly I would take the quote that
you just saw on screen as an actual
quote not what I said as someone who
does this work um I would say that my
annoyance level would be extremely high
if I found a bunch of issues and then
someone was like well it was pre-pro all
those are like fixed and I'm like okay
but that's not that's not what I
experienced I can only review what is
actually in front of me totally um okay
we ready yeah that is a great first
frame the all new framework 16 is here
and I am super excited about it not only
because I invested my own money in this
company I want because it has several
tricks up it sleeve that are genuinely
nutty that's right for years companies
have struggled to make an upgradable
laptop at all let alone one meant for
gaming but it's finally here and did I
mentioned that every single part of this
machine can be purchased individually on
their store and replaced by the end user
what world is this unfortunately a world
where trying to be objective doesn't
change the fact that I have a vested
interest in framework success which
makes reviewing their products a bit
tricky so I don't want you to take my
word for it the rest of the script I
haven't even read it to recuse myself
from our review Alex our resent laptop
con Jake actually active framework 16
pre-order and John from the lab are
going to be telling you guys all about
it both the good and the bad this is
John's first on camera appearance in a
Mainline video I think oh cool so I'll
be uh I'll I'll be seeing it for the
first time nice fingers crossed that
they didn't bite off more than they with
this thing unlike this easily diges
Segway to our sponsor see Sonic more
than my own son unlik every laptop I've
used everything on the surface is
modular save the power button up here
that has a fingerprint sensor in it you
can adjust the keyboard and trackpad
positioning you can add aad or a
macad or if that macro pad is for you
they even have these led Matrix displays
do these do anything besides reducing
battery life no do I really like them
yes as neat however the other new party
trick the bespoken upgradable removable
discreet AMD graphics card is so sick
many companies have attempted to put
upgradeable Graphics in a laptop in the
past but the upgrade operation has never
been something that I recommend the
average Tech Enthusiast undertake
framework okay we should talk a little
bit about why that is um I saw a lot of
feedback um either on just like social
media on Reddit um I read through the
comments on this video cuz that's what I
do rather than watching videos you know
this yeah um and I saw quite a few
people bring up XM mxm it's like oh yeah
framework invented mxm good
job it's like it's like misunderstand
the whole situation speedrunning
any% the reason you should do that you
should have a leaderboard based on like
how fast they
commented sorry keep going the problem
with mxm which for those of you who
aren't familiar with it and I don't
blame you because it's been kind of dead
for a long time um the mxm is a is a
just a smaller version of the PCI
Express interface where just the full
connector has been drunk a little bit
and it's a PCI by 16 interface and then
board spec um the problem with mxm is
that Nvidia in particular but to my
knowledge AMD as well has never been
able to
standardize exactly what the layout of
the board will be so in theory it's a
good idea because you could just have a
card that has a GPU and the memory and
the vrms on it and you just slide it
into a slot on the motherboard it's a
sideways slot kind of like an m.2 slot
and you just put it in screw it in and
boom upgraded GPU the problem with that
is that because Nvidia and to my
knowledge AMD it's just Nvidia I know in
particular has been adamant that they
just give up and don't want to do it and
and they've been they've
been very oppositional when it comes to
any attempts by laptop manufacturers or
others to to make mxm a thing
um Nvidia and AMD have not been able to
standardize where those components are
on the board not only that but they
haven't been able to standardize what
kind of form they might take do they
have an IHS are they a be dieye how many
chips are there what layout will they be
in how much power will they draw and
therefore for how much heat will they
dissipate so what's happened is that
while mxm is you know a standard it's
only a standard in so far as it's a slot
everything else about it pretty much had
to be redesigned from generation to
generation to accommodate the new layout
of every component on the board and the
new power requirements so what mxm
turned into was essentially a way of
making sure that your laptop was going
to be thicker to accommodate this board
that sat on top of another board in this
interface
um and that's about it there were still
some benefits right like you could have
the ability to configure your laptop at
the time of ordering and they could put
a different GPU in as long as it had
been designed with that particular
generation in mind but overall this sort
of you know GPU upgradable GPU laptop
Nirvana that we all thought mxm could
help us achieve has not been possible
and as for the laptop manufacturers I
don't think you're going to see any
appetite for it ever again I mean Dell
got burned on it when they promised that
they had this alien wear that was going
to be upgradeable from one generation to
the next and then my understanding is
NVIDIA basically was like oh well sorry
about that nope the power envelope is
much higher so it's not going to happen
uh it could have been Dell alien wear
that screwed that up I suspect as well
that that's what happened with MSI who
also said hey we've got this Titan I
think it was something something 80
something Titan uh they had this like
big fat laptop that was they were like
yeah you're going to be able to upgrade
the GP mechanical keyboard that one they
ended up getting class action sued for
that one because they didn't offer an
upgrade because it wasn't possible it
turned out um
and my understanding is that would have
I can't think of anyone whose fault that
would have been other than Nvidia uh I
can't think of any reason M would have
promised that other than that they
thought that they had a road map from
their partner that would allow them to
provide an upgradeable laptop so the the
point I'm getting at with all of this is
that this was an innovation and it is
one that matters because the way that
framework has done it solves a lot of
the problems of mxm it doesn't solve all
of them I told framework when they
initially told me and this is this is
quite a while back when they initially
told me we're doing a gaming laptop I
was
like okay you realize that um everyone
has tried this and every time it has not
worked and here are the problems and
they were like n dog we think we've got
this um and I was like okay uh you're
you're going to have a lot of problems
to solve and one of them they obviously
still haven't solved I I asked them I
told them I was like look what board
partner is going to deliver Nvidia gpus
Nvidia
maintains iron fisted control over their
Partners do you think for a second that
like uh you know let's let's pick up you
know what I probably know too much so
Luke why don't you pick a board
manufacturer manufacturer or just brand
manufacturer uh Asus sure so let's say
pegatron yeah like like a board
manufacturer okay there is no doubt in
my mind that given you know some time
and given the the
resources is still called pegatron uh
it's complicated okay yeah uh but
pegatron 100% exists and and is a wow I
thought that was renamed contract
manufacturer y um okay
so um because it was Pegasus yeah so now
it's pegatron and Asus yeah yeah anyway
uh the point is given probably weeks
right not even months probably given
weeks pegatron could design and
manufacture uh a framework module for
the framework 16 with an Nvidia
something or other they won't because
Nvidia needs to sign off on absolutely
everything their gpus go into whether
you like bought them and they're like
yours right or not so that's like how
much RAM you can put on the board what
kind of uh cooling what kind of you
boost clock speeds how much power you're
allowed to deliver to it basically
everything even things as stupid as okay
we want to do one with a blower style
cooler instead of you know an exhaust
all the air inside your case cooler cuz
it's better for small form factor
enthusiasts my understanding allegedly
blah blah blah all of that stuff is that
Invidia will clamp down on that because
they're worried about it cannibalizing
their workstation
cards which do have that style of cooler
because it's more deal for stacking them
so this that's what prevents you from
stacking up
408s is NVIDIA won't let board Partners
build cards that have coolers that
better facilitate it it's like you know
off
right so as far as I can tell framework
still hasn't solved that problem if
you're someone at Nvidia who is just you
know not a completeing um then
by all means if you're listening to this
advocate for why the you can't just put
a GPU on a module and plug it into a
laptop because off it doesn't
matter just chill I know I probably
haven't made the most little spicy today
diplomatic argument for it but it's just
this isn't the first time I've been
frustrated about this okay yeah yeah
yeah whatever invested how you how could
you go after your your employer like
that
in invested in framework or not this
isn't the first time that I've talked
about this and this isn't the first time
that I've been really frustrated by it
um I was at uh computex one year I think
yeah it must have been computex cuz I
don't think Silverstone oh no yeah they
used to do CES but not on the show floor
I was on the show floor for sure so it
must have been computex um and I had a
really frustrating conversation with
Silverstone because they had this really
cool little egpu back when Thunderbolt
external gpus were really starting to
take off so this would have been like I
don't know four or five years ago or
something like that and instead of being
designed for desktop graphics cards so
like being huge it was designed for
little mxm cards mxm they had gotten
their hands on it must have been it was
either a 1080 TI or like a 2080 or
something this was a long time ago so I
don't remember which one it was must
have been a 1080 TI probably not cuz it
was around the same time that Zotac was
doing those super cute little gaming uh
like little tiny gaming things that had
mxm in them as well and they were like
yeah so we made this thing and I was
like that is a super cool thing how on
on Earth are you going to get any boards
for it and they're like well we're
advocating for it we're going to board
manufacturers we're going to try and get
someone to to build these things for us
dead so why can't we have cute little
tiny external gpus because you we
don't want people putting our gpus in
anything that we don't Dain them to be
the thing that it goes in just
off you know yeah basically yeah like I
love the good things Nvidia does in fact
we're going to talk about one of them a
little bit later
um they they've got this cool new AI SDR
to HDR thing I have no problem with the
good things Nvidia does but part of
acknowledging things as they are is that
you call it when something's good and
you call it when something is
and them refusing to allow anyone to
manufacture their gpus into a form
factor that they just don't like is
anyway uh some people are asking that we
do 1.5 instead of
1.75 your call okay
sure uh I'm on it I'm on it like a
bonnet he's he's trying to soften up
after being so spicy no no I'll get
spicy you want you want more spice I got
more spice I'm sure I'm sure we'll get
there I got more spice people are
commenting look at Alex's hat is that an
LT toque oh that's also not that's also
not an LTT sweater yeah what's happening
it's knock to allow it okay fair enough
they're they're they're are
Pros but come on
Alex okay ready
yeah oh oh I don't have any audio Dan
Dan save us oh oh it's my fault well
what did I do it looks like it's
up I mean I uh here you good you see it
I mean I'm I yeah I'm definitely I'm
definitely clicking the same thing I
haven't changed
anything why is nothing ever
easy you
know
uh okay it's definitely working through
connectent HD audio how about bmd
HDMI you see it D here do you see mine
why yep I see yours okay okay maybe we
just play mine sh hold on let me just
give it let me give it the old unplug
and replug and we'll see if mine lights
back up and otherwise then uh we'll
we'll go to
Luke am I
back no okay I guess it's going to be
luke then all right how far are you in I
can't read it I am 225 225 oh I could
read it look at me go what a guy look at
his eyes my eyes functioned I'm so
stoked that was bound to happen at some
point
um okay full screen switch to my screen
slightly ahead of where you were okay
cool ready yeah however says the GPU
swap can be done in a couple minutes so
let's test that a little quiet first
power down the system then unlock the
tabs and take off the touchpad and the
keyboard open the little plastic flap
here covering this is a fair Mount
disassembly to swap compon screws and
remove it from the system framework
includes a screwdriver with this laptop
but the not Screwdriver from l store.com
is a little bit nicer thank the screws
are captive so you'll be hardress to
lose them just make sure you don't lose
the interposer itself I'd recommend
screwing it back into the GPU once you
have that out speaking of which just two
more screws and the entire GPU should
slide out
dang so that's it that whole thing back
there is the GPU and that's how they
solved it every other GPU swap on a
laptop I've done holy heck this was
seamless and if you don't have GPU you
can just save over half a pound of
weight and an inch of length by just not
having a GPU anymore but all of this
modularity comes at a steep price
possibly for my boss because the
keyboard on the framework 16 is frankly
unacceptable for a laptop of this price
the closest comparison I have is the
Acer Nitro 5 which starts at
$750 and it is just okay here one sec
okay hold on hold on hold on Dan's
getting me to do all the things okay is
now maximum well testing back you Rea if
you don't want GPU you can just save
over half a pound of weight and an inch
of length by just not having a GPU
anymore but all of this modularity comes
at a steep price possibly for my boss
because the keyboard on the framework is
frankly unacceptable for a laptop of
this price the closest comparison I have
is the Nitro 5 which starts at
$750 and it is just okay at $750 while
testing the framework 16 I wasn't able
to get up to my full typing speed in
particular while doing really quick
double presses due to the chassis Flex a
huge disappointment compared to the
excellent keyboard on the framework 13
but yeah see that's really frustrating
glad brought particularly in this area
it has been better in the past yeah
because the framework 13 actually has a
really solid keyboard and that was one
of the things that I highlighted as
being particularly impressive about it
was that in spite of its modularity and
repairability it still had a good
keyboard when that was one of the
justifications that I could see for not
having a repairable design was that you
wanted to maintain chassis stiffness so
that you could have a good
keyboard and with the keyboard off you
can really just see how not supportive
this super thin piece of metal is
fortunately this framework disassembling
only takes about a minute we were able
to chuck some pads in the areas where it
was squishiest and holy crap that is so
much
better that's actually maybe more
frustrating it seems like the fix was
easy um yeah I'm really know okay I'm
not I'm not sure if that's my favorite
thing ever
um it's cool that you can fix it it's
cool that Alex found that yeah that's
that's super cool good job good job Alex
but I um little questionable on
framework this isn't their first laptop
yeah so you'd think they'd know Noti
something like oh the chassis flexes a
lot uh oh and the tech redneck uh says
framework sent an email to all
pre-orders talking about this and what
they're working on to fix
it okay cool uh okay hopefully hopefully
they do fix it okay all right just stuff
some thermal pads under there we'll see
Flex influences a feel of your keyboard
is huge and the difference that this mod
has made is just night and day with the
thermop pads in there this keyboard
isn't quite on the level of Asus or
Alienware but it comfortably beats MSI
and Razer and brings it much more in
line with the price while you're
modifying things you might want use a
coup pieces of electrical tape to remedy
some of the small but visible gaps
between the modules but at least the
track pad what did he just say it's
glass no do not put electrical tape on
your laptop that would look way worse
that and it would leave horrible
horrible horrible residue on it yeah I
would prefer the Gap I love Alex but he
um he's a tape Enthusiast yeah yes okay
yeah there's certain man I forget what
all of his favorite tapes are wait could
you could you put the tape
under no there's Gap even then I
wouldn't put it there because it'll get
warm and it'll leave Goo uh use use any
other tape there's uh there's like
there's black paper tapes that would if
that's what you want to do that would
work way better for that okay popped
with accurate and responsive tracking I
just wish it was a little bit bigger
another sacrifice for the modularity one
decision I really don't understand
though are the speakers which fire oh
from the side instead of like up at you
or bouncing off of the table like
everything else to be clear that can
work really well I've seen some really
impressive side-firing speakers that use
just algorithmic nonsense to sound great
but so has Alex and I'm sure he wouldn't
bring this up if it wasn't actually a
problem yeah fair enough that sounds
good for comparison here's a similar
priced Lenovo Legion slim
7i okay the noo L noo is not too bad
little bit quiet but I would say
perfectly acceptable and the framework
is
uh it's not the worst I've ever heard
but it lacks some treble and Bas and
staging get yourself a Bluetooth speaker
what is really good though is the
dedicated GPU output on the back this is
wired directly to the GPU now Jake wrote
here that he wants me to complain about
this not being a full siiz display port
but personally I think this type c is
fine so uh one second stupid BM think
type c makes sense for a laptop
personally we asked and they said that
they tried it just wouldn't fit with the
giant heat pipes they're using to cool
it but for sakes guys you founded your
company on a laptop with modular iio
meant to solve the dongle crisis and
you're telling me I need to carry one
again wait a second modular
IO no way I don't know why I didn't
think about
that we got to see if this works no way
look at that John didn't believe it 4K
120 baby which is how I describe the io
situation in general with two more iio
Lots that's actually pry fun to connect
virtually you just have your
HDMI
module that you just have in the side of
the laptop that's connected through the
onboard GPU so that there can be a bit
of a performance penalty there if you
connect that to an external display it's
you know not huge but it's there and
then you can just like have that and
then you've always got your dongle with
you it's like it's like having this the
stylus that docks inside your pen or
your phone or whatever okay all right
that's pretty fun I'm happy Jake tested
that that's pretty funny mod for USBC
capable of 240 W charging usba a display
port HDMI 2.0 micro SD 2.5 g ethernet
audio and expanded storage but they also
release the design so literally anyone
with the right skills can design and
sell their own modules including for the
GPU slot now even when there isn't a GPU
installed some of that space is occupied
by the cpu's cooling fans but they've
already released a reference dual SSD
design as an example I'm just excited to
have a place to put my Mountain do
without sacrificing IO coming from an
Intel based MacBook Pro with a grand
total of four USB type-c ports this was
the biggest breath of fresh air across
my entire experience sure Apple just
including dcent iio would fix most of
that but if your needs change or you
want to do something silly like running
four displays off your laptop you don't
need a dongle at least not an external
one now speaking of external the power
brick is this cute little 180 watt
Gallum nitride unit and it's the highest
wat type-c charger I've ever heard of
and a far cry at least in terms of size
for most gaming laptop power good job
their framework also from their first
laptop dis assembly experience since all
of the In fairness to other laptop
manufacturers the framework is big but
it's not super powerful like that GPU is
not a mobile 4090 or mobile 4080 or
whatever else so just you know something
to consider the screws are accessible
from the top of the laptop so replacing
any part of this laptop is an absolute
Joy now if you're not an experienced
framework has guides for replacing
literally every part of the laptop
that's because if you're a nerd you can
buy this laptop IKEA style and put it
together yourself and I take assembling
a framework laptop over doing Ike any
day of the week if you miss our
framework factory tour a little tidbit
is that they actually preassemble the
DIY Edition laptops for QC and stress
testing and then they get taken apart
before shiing you can build it yourself
don't believe it's that easy well it
took about this long to get the entire
laptop to Pieces we've got the 85w
battery 56 module 7 minutes that's
really fast that's really impressive
it's like wicked
fast oh hey speaking of uh framework
laptop TOS being wicked fast uh someone
I saw someone in chat earlier asking
about the electroboom collab when's it
coming yeah because that includes a
framework Build Challenge oh where every
additional minute I take to assemble it
he turns up the value on the dog collar
the dog shock collar that's attached to
my neck and then once I'm done he gets
to press it oh wow so I I had to try to
speed build one anyway how fast did you
do it well I'm not going to spoil video
the point is that video is coming out uh
hopefully
Monday exciting stay tuned very cool
7700 s inside the GPU module a ryzen 78
or 7940 HS powered main board two ddr5
sodium slots two gen 4 m.2 slots and if
you're not happy with the configurations
you can see on screen here the DIY
Edition can be ordered in pretty much
any config you want or Bare Bones and
you can call your own storage ramp which
made picking laptops to Benchmark
against uh a little tricky to see what
you can get in a similarly priced and
classed bigname laptop we opted for an
Intel Nvidia spec Lenova Legion Slim
7i
that was a much faster GPU I am not
excited to see how much faster that
ising laptops to Benchmark again a
little tricky to see what you can get in
a similarly priced and classed bigname
laptop we opted for an
Intel that's a lot of ram y that's a big
battery y that's a really fast CPU
although I think the framework will
probably hold its own when it comes to
CPU but that is that is a big
GPU Nvidia spe Lenovo Legion slim 7i and
to make sure our framework is performing
as it should and as tough a16 it's
cheaper and it was supposed to be the
same specs as the framework 16 that was
until they shipped the lower-end model
for the Press unit the differences
between the CPUs are minor so it should
still tell us that the framework is
performing up to enough despite those
differences every game is actually a
pretty tight race cyber Punk nearly
maxed out at 1080p yeah I want to see
thank
you okay uh that is not nearly as far
off the lovo legion yeah as I thought it
might be like if you're talking a
difference in one FPS on 1%
lows all right no one's going to notice
that yeah it's pretty good the Intel
base Lenova is slightly ahead in average
FPS with both itself and the AMD based
Asus model feeding the framework by one
frame in 1% lows in f123 Intel's okay
this is less good yeah um so now we're
at closer to a 10% uplift on the
Lenovo yeah widens a bit wait wait wa
wait I thought the framework was still
at the bottom no no no middle oh
tremendous okay Carry
On
a modest showing in second place
surprisingly beating out the on paper
faster to No One surprise in Total War
Warhammer 3 the 470 wins again but our
yeah this is this that's a decent jump
this is way closer than I thought this
whole thing was going to
be okay framework squeaks past the Asus
again it's hard to say what exactly is
giving it the advantage in these games
but the faster memory and better cooling
on the framework likely has something to
do with it as for productivity the
framework 16 loses handily incin both
single and multicore but no surprises
there as the Asus has a more thermal
head room when it doesn't have at the
same time in blender our as laptop
crushes the framework across the board
despite the only real difference being a
slightly higher Bas
and and the same can be said for
video I me compared to the
Lenovo
yeah the Gap is large but compared to
the Lenovo it's very close hand and in
media editing with Premier in Photoshop
overall not a lot of surprises here the
faster CPU in the Asus shines in
productivity but we expect the higher
end framework would yield the same
result as for
yeah it's not a great price performance
option but it's not terrible either it's
just that if you want the most frames
for your money this isn't the laptop to
buy also you should probably just buy a
desktop but if you do buy
one protect it with a skin brand sponsor
this of the video so L could show you
how being a relatively new company
parties are making
accessories neand sure is and they're
going to be ready for launch day they
said two anever one would be easier for
case to fight a rip
off oh they're both the same my notes
say look how accurate these internals
are no wonder they got so pissed they
got ripped off but I actually haven't
had this thing open yet so maybe
probably while I completely ignore D
Brand's explicit instructions for how to
do this and make up my own method always
check their site and make sure that you
do it the right way what am I supposed
to be saying though I know they're
paying me to put a skin on a laptop
right now but this is my favorite kind
of integration we're all working
together to promote something we believe
in yeah yeah that's both an investor and
jav hey thanks debr shout out so I think
I've got it pretty decently lined up
right now there's no way this battery is
made in Canada that's got to be any steg
framework's Canadian they are Canadian
Bros that's a framework d
not Canadian oh it's not quite straight
wow oh I bued it to sub bued it right
there just don't look right where don't
worry about it don't right where where
it's not bad pretty flat yeah yeah oh
hey 5' one line oh I know when I'm
insulted check out dbrand at over to you
John great in our battery urance test
both with and without the GPU hey it's
John from the love yeah okay oh whoa
whoa whoa that's really good yeah whoa
how did it do so how' it do so well here
wow
well that's good that's crazy actually
okay beating Asus and Lenovo by a few
hours stress
test
hey okay we're doing good yeah I mean to
be clear like those bars look a lot
higher you know but like that's another
uh 15 minutes on battery if you're
running an intense game yeah so don't
you know don't don't read too much it
and if you the GPU you'll get even more
battery life however none of these
laptops are industry leading for battery
life but if the battery in the framework
starts to struggle after a few years at
least you can easily replace it was this
a cold day no I don't think so two to
three hosts are wearing Tes well okay uh
there was some internal drama uh about a
week and a half ago two week about two
weeks ago somebody adjusted the
thermostat and Tech dad was not
impressed that's me our thermostat in
the warehouse over here it's great in
the winter because it uses um air
conditioning okay in the summer because
we have an air conditioner and not a
heat pump here uh we use a radiant tube
uh so gas radiant heating but because of
the buildout that we did in the building
the original radiant tubes of which
there were a total of four in these four
units well three of them are gone now oh
because they don't fit anymore because
they were longer than we have left in
the building after we built Meine over
that part and like I don't know even if
you could leave it there above the
mezine you wouldn't because it'd be a
fire hazard because you have something
right next to a radi heating tube yeah
so we only have one we only have one
radiant heating tube in this warehouse
and it's at the very
end now we have a fan there's a fan that
we spent like it's from it's from Big
Ass Fans so it costs like ,000 to buy
this fan and install it but the Shooters
never turn it on because it's kind of
loud and it's inconvenient to turn it on
and off which I get I hear you but
someone not knowing all of this so what
you're supposed to do is turn on the
radiant tube and put on the fan so that
it's not just boiling on one side and
then cold on the other yeah um so what
you're supposed to do is you're supposed
to turn on the fan um and not adjust the
thermostat so someone was like I'm cold
over here and adjusted the thermostat
so the warehouse was freaking like a
freaking sauna while while we were going
through that cold snap it's like it was
also cooking on the weekends guys did
you figure that one out uh I don't know
we'll figure that out later but the
point was like guys don't don't don't
touch the thermostat look I know it's
not a perfect system darn it but just
turn on the fan just put put on the the
circulation fan um I think when you hit
like late 20s early 30s you just start
caring about thermostats a lot yeah it's
just a thing so
Logistics um locked they put a lock on
the thermostat they took the key and
they took it over to the other building
because nobody is ever supposed to
adjust it and it's possible that maybe
they overcorrected and things were cold
for a bit but I think they've got it
dialed in now got it okay all right so
now now you all know The Saga of the uh
the thermostat adjustment was it chil
that day it's like working behind the
scenes maybe yeah
as for cooling they partnered with
Cooler Master design is gigantic heat
pipe array which paired with the liquid
metal resulted in combuster atts that
absolutely crushed
the oh whoa okay so whatever complaints
other media were seeing the thermal
solution maybe that was an issue with
their unit then if you're having a hard
time reading this the red line is
framework blue line is Asus yellow line
is Lenovo so they yeah a crushed I think
is a pretty good word for that that's
awesome that's very good that's a great
result I will yet again you already said
it I will yet again say it sounds like
most if not all of the review units were
pre-production maybe not wise yeah
continuing on a16 from Asus which is
running the exact same RX 7700s the
framework did Peak higher than the
lenovo's RTX 470 but once the fans
ramped up it held its own it's important
to mention that the Lenovo unit wasac
with noct nth1 in a previous project so
it could be possible that the framework
would look even better here to a factory
Lenovo remember the F1 test that
framework performs exceptionally well
staying under while the and the Lenovo
are both hitting over 70 or even 80 and
that's while maintaining a very solid
lovo I think he's talking Peaks there
yeah but what happened here these both
Spike right here and this one spikes
Down The f123 Benchmark is not uh canned
fully canned it it runs um it's it's
it's Dynamic I okay sorry what's the
best way for me to descri it's not
exactly the same every time yeah like
all the AI is running all the physics is
running yeah so sometimes you can just
have something slightly different is
going to happen something happens
slightly different you should just be
kind of looking at overall how it goes
are both hitting over 70 or even 80 and
that's while maintaining a very solid
4.1 gz on the average clock speed A6
average closer to 2.7 yikes to be fair
we ran all these laptops in their
default power configurations but the
tough a6s radon 7700s is reporting 80
average on the core and 93 on The Hot
Spot the framework kept to much more
reasonable 68 and 80 respectively the
webcam and microphone which use the same
module as the framework 13 very cool
look and sound like this at least with a
I was going to say that was a big audio
quality change yeah I know we got this
we got this bro big Studio light in
front of me and if you shut it off like
this in a pretty DM crappy environment
not great not terrible and I did
anecdotally hear that the microphone
sounded better than my airpods Pro too
so cool and they do at least have
physical shut off switches which is a
nice touch and we haven't even talked
about the display the framework 16 holds
its own when it comes to color accuracy
reaching an average SDR Delta of 1.5 and
of 2.8 part thanks to Windows Auto color
management system which only seems to
support a few selected displays it
shifts with it turned off making the
numbers much worse so we recommend using
it the display is bright enough for
outdoors over 500 nits motion Clarity is
decent enough at 165 HZ which is great
for gaming but there are a couple of
issues that are a bit hard to ignore
like the honestly kind of mid uniformity
that results in visible vignetting on
web pages and solid backgrounds and
somehow our units panel was pained under
the removable plastic bezel for some
reason it kind of looks like you can
seen that happen in a decent amount this
leads me to the price as configured
ignoring extra accessories like the
expansion shell which is included if you
spe a GPU and cost $100 on its own this
is a $2,200 laptop they're not gouging
remember it's a small company building
an entirely bespoke laptop that
genuinely could and seems to already be
changing an entire industry yeah and
they have to pay their graphic designers
to draw those little portraits of
everybody yeah that's not free
yeah yeah the keyboard stability and
display uniformity are things that would
normally be a deal breaker for me
especially at this price point and I
wouldn't blame you for feeling they
should have an on-site dog
sitter okay that's an insight side joke
people are not going to get but here's
the thing fixing the keyboard is
probably something you can DIY as Al
showed earlier and assuming framework
either fixes the issues or comes up with
a panel upgrade down the road I can
probably live with that display for a
while for the utter flexibility
repairability and the simple fact that
this could be theoretically the last
gaming laptop I'd ever need to buy
that's pretty freaking cool so as long
as framework stays in business and
follows through with their promises I
mean they already have a history of
doing so when the CPU is too outdated or
the GP isn't strong enough that's
actually a really good
point if these guys came out of nowhere
and went straight at we're doing a
gaming laptop that would have been the
wrong move I wouldn't I wouldn't believe
them there's absolutely no way the only
thing that gives this any credibility is
the fact that they've already oh I was
about to okay
sorry hold on is the fact that they've
already delivered multiple generations
of upgrades on the framework
13 so as far as I'm concerned I believe
them until they screw it up now as
opposed to my default state would have
been not believing them until they
actually do something before yeah
precedent is good right noward gets
gunked up and the battery dies it's an
easy swap instead of chucking away an
entire machine you could have your very
own laptop of thesias and I can't wait
to see what the future holds all that's
left is to decide if I want to keep my
pre-order but think of the modules Jake
right and maybe they could make a module
that would help me segue to our sponsor
Jaa we've all been there trying to sell
stuff the usual way I've T I've taught
them well yeah was pretty good that was
a good video that was really good it's
almost like we have a style and we have
a really good team and stuff um yeah
that was that was that was an awesome
video I really liked switching between
the different hosts kind of getting the
different perspectives great job
everyone like great job yeah that was
really good really enjoyed
that yeah first camera appearance as
well super good oh yeah John did great
that was great yep I think it's a I
think it was the right call to just keep
it for a short period because I think
that while he did a great job it can be
hard to do like I wasn't there when they
were shooting it but it can be hard to
do like long takes which can make it a
lot more work for the editor and stuff
um and it's it's nice to ease people
into it you know get people kind of used
to them as well I also really personally
you did a good job as a personal opinion
flavor thing I like expert in a thing
presenting their section of a thing I've
always really like whether they're the
best presenter or not you can get away
with almost any level of host yeah as
long as they're not on camera for too
long yeah so that's something that we've
used a lot when we've done factory tours
for example y like when I did the Intel
tours I recognized pretty quickly that
these were not folks that I could give
like a 200w Spiel to um but I can do a
little thing but if I gave them exactly
the intonation I wanted gave them the
eyeline
and gave them like like 10 words or
something like that then I could get
them in the video they could do a great
job they could put their best foot
forward and then people could hear it
right from the experts and we get that
that balance where I do my thing which
is to be a host and they get to do their
thing which is to be an expert and it
enhances the video by by putting those
elements together right and I think that
the team did a great job of doing that
um really good really good video there's
an official post from framework on
framework's Community page oh can I go
your laptop sure it's really long oh wow
um but they address a bunch of
stuff high frequency noise from the main
board uh buzzing noise from Graphics
module CPU thermal module performance uh
liquid metal barrier adjustments cold
GPU performance uh DPC watchdog
violation blue screen speecher
attenuated on the left or right channel
touchpad module sliding friction display
alignment display color gam minor fix
and finish modules keyboard detection
secondary SSD may disappear display
Frozen after uh smart mck switching and
they're yeah so maybe if you're
interested go read that so what you're
trying to say is they're on it like a
bonnet
like very very good Circle fantastic
thank you there's a channel super fun
how to draw a circle I watched it now I
know very popular was it that's a short
yeah has like 100 million views or
something wow most our most successful
video ever and it's just like can anyone
at the company do a backflip yes we
should do how to do a backflip no we
shouldn't why because you know who it is
who
Elijah
what we should definitely do it now we
really
shouldn't Elijah there you go there you
go revive Channel super fun by yourself
one short video how to do a backflip no
other content no Mainline videos not
even once none of that kind of stuff
yeah how to draw a perfect circle 107
million views wow that's
ridiculous if he screws up doing a
backflip on work on work property and
hits his head again what happens we are
liable that's why he will never do a
back flip on work property Elijah if
you're
watching no what if you go to a a
trampoline place like a a a gymnastics
place with a foam pit and he back flips
into a foam pit is he working yeah no
okay forbidden all right can anyone else
do a backflip doesn't matter can you do
a backflip on a trampoline yeah
okay in fact I think there's a uh I
think Ivon uploaded a video video of me
attempting one at some point on Twitter
oh and I uh it seemed like something you
might be able to do I I like you know
how our trampoline has the the net
around it I like hit the net cuz I like
I almost back flipped like right out of
the trampoline cuz it's it had been a
long time and I jumped back instead of
jumping up um
anyway oh boy um
no okay what else are we talking about
oh uh merch meag yeah guys the way to
interact with the show Good gravy we are
an hour and a half in we haven't even
done merch messages yet Luke how could
you allow this to happen uh it was my
plan all along actually like my I came
in today and I was like you know what we
need to get 90 minutes into the show
before we do merch I wanted to get home
at a reasonable time today way to go no
not going to happen the way to interact
with the show is merch messages don't
send a Super Chat don't send twitch bit
send a merch message all you got to do
is go on LTT store.com find some awesome
stuff to check out uh um first warning
there will be at least several more but
screwdriver bit prices are going to be
going up Taran came in and he knows how
to do proper math for your operational
expenses and we are losing money on
screwdriver bids oh basically that's not
good once you account for all the
handling and everything and overhead um
they are they are not profitable at
$6.99 for the the big packs of them so
I've I heard in school that that's bad
yeah no you didn't you never took that
class the point is pricing will be going
up so if you see bits that you like and
they're in stock uh pick them up uh we
are going to make sure everyone gets
ample warning I told the guys I was like
look we don't want these go we don't
want to drop it on people no we don't
want to drop it on people and we don't
want to go any higher than we have to to
make sure that we're above water on this
thing uh they're really high quality
bits but guys we we don't want people to
feel like uh you know we're trying to
adopt the printer model you know um that
that's not the intent here but um so so
there's going to be a newsletter we're
going to we're going to talk about it I
think it's probably not going to happen
for a couple of months uh but yeah pick
up some pick up some bits if you want as
a as a merch message oh what
now what wait for it what now wait for
it what is it oh this okay
yes oh that was pretty
close we're happy that Net's there so I
didn't tuck we're also happy you didn't
go higher
yeah your your feet are like right at
the rim of that net oh I know yep I
caught that on the security camera
people are saying scroll down but I'm
not signed in on Twitter so there's
nothing
there nice there's nothing to scroll
down to um
yeah so what was I talking about oh I
see right bits are going up so all you
got to do is add something to your cart
and you'll see a little box for a merch
message it'll go to our producer Dan hey
there he
is Dan really you're going to be in your
underwear for the W
show I'm at home that's fair uh so it'll
go to producer Dan he'll forward it to
someone who can answer your question
he'll answer it himself or he will send
it to me and Luke to reply to uh the
main High light items for the store this
week are the Steve turtleneck which we
launched last week oh there's some
interesting stuff okay we'll talk about
that later what was that don't don't
worry about it don't worry about it
don't worry about don't look at that
don't look at that don't look at that uh
so the Steve turtleneck this just
launched last week this has been
extremely popular it's got the seam up
the- middle just like the classic one
that some guy who's known in the tech
space used to wear it's a mock neck so
it's not a super high turtleneck it's
very wear
it's somewhere in between you know
business and just you can wear it
anytime you
want uh anyway we just launched that and
then we also have a brand newly launched
item the women's PJ set which our
delightful staff helped us model thank
you so much everyone for helping out one
of
those
um they have they have too much fun
these shoots
to be clear it's it's a good thing it's
a it's a good thing um wow look at that
we even went and used the sets this time
okay that doesn't always happen cool
good job everyone um and then of course
there is something
uh the word wrapping on
that spin into
Precision ceramic bearing internal bit
storage super high quality construction
that's right the LT Precision
screwdriver is coming all you got to do
is put your email here and you will get
a notification when it
arrives all right merch messages Dan hit
me sure let's see Hello w. dll I started
my it career in the mid90s with mainly
PC Building I really enjoy build streams
with lonus in the janky cooling
adventures with Alex and lonus something
coming
up ooh janky cooling Adventures
um oh we saw that post on Reddit where
someone's trying to passively cool a
high-end GPU um we definitely think we
have some ideas to contribute to that
concept so we're keeping an eye on it
and we are uh potentially going to make
our own run at it uh that's that's one
idea that we had we let me try to think
if there's anything else I mean we just
got the thread Ripper Pro one up
okay we're probably going to do whole
editing Dan water cooling at some
point but I can't promise that's going
to happen to anytime immediately this
how mad are you Dan how mad how mad tell
them am am I gonna get to help go in
well I don't see why not then I'm not
mad oh I see how it is then we're good
all right okay okay but I have something
mad about that why would you were giving
me a talking to the other day about how
we shouldn't water cool the the editing
machines with whole room water cooling
or wait were you on my side we were
talking at Sean and Shawn didn't want to
do it I think someone didn't want to do
I want to have I don't want to have
water blocks on the gpus anymore yeah
are we just doing CPU no how would we
just do CPUs okay but we can quick
disconnect all the gpus I think we could
yeah yeah yeah how about that quick
disconnects then it makes it super easy
and especially if the quick disconnects
just go to the back of the case like
it's not a problem at all I issue with
it Jon
CHT yeah it's gonna be awesome it just
feels ridiculous to have the air
conditioning running in the winter for
the editing D yeah no I I I'm I'm I was
trying to defend it I don't remember who
was against someone was against it in
that room I don't remember who it was
apparently quiet until you said quick
disconnects on gpus right quiet how the
hell am I quiet well I don't know you're
the producer they asking me for I'm just
the talent I'm just the face I do seem I
do seem quiet quiet hey fix hey main
nightmare what's the benefit why didn't
you just take a nice mic home that
sounds no offense um not great well he
didn't he wasn't
in he would have had to come in oh to
get the mic to bring it home oh okay all
right well remember that I'm also on a
call oh yeah I'm not you're not hearing
my actual mic yeah I don't know it's
what right because why would you use
your actual mic for a call it's just a
call it's not like it's a podcast that
you know thousands of people are
watching it's not like important or
anything AJ's commenting on the is so
triggered right now look at him go I'm
not triggered I'm not triggered oh man
this isn't a condenser pencil
no it's okay we can fix it with some go
xlrs okay um AJ's commenting on the
maintenance nightmare but AJ just think
about it this way it's just it's just
rampant ongoing job security yeah how
would we ever how would we ever get to
the infra team as long as we keep
implementing these like awful infra
ideas I think it's there's got to
there's got to be some amount of rule of
cool and it's pretty cool and it's a
bunch of content yeah and ultimately we
make content yeah if you guys don't like
them then you can just rip them out
after the video's over yeah I don't
think we should but yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah what were we talking about
even work merch messages the store
something AJ
sold let's go
oh yeah merch
messages um was there another one I
thought we did two or three oh hold on
hold on the geek of all things asks will
the Precision driver storage need
proprietary length bits that's honestly
the biggest reason I didn't buy your
other
screwdrivers all I will say right now is
people are going to like our bits you're
going to love our bits you're going to
love our bits watch this you're going to
love my
bits are are they are are standard SC
are those proprietary length or are they
just short you know you can get them
other places you
can can hack off a standard length one
and it's exactly the same shank uh or
you can put a longer bit in the
screwdriver no you can't store it in the
handle you can no you can store it in
the handle oh you have to align the
things you can only fit six instead of
12 yeah yeah it's not proprietary it's
not proprietary but it is less common um
the engineering team point out that you
can actually get those bits more easily
if you know what you're looking for um
there's little like ratcheting um like
non-s screwdrivers like like like
ratcheting I don't know what are they
like a socket socket wrench wrench okay
yeah yeah but not for but not a wrench
ones that have a little um socket for a
screwdriver bit oh so ratcheting
screwdrivers but like right angle okay
ratcheting screwdrivers and they often
use low profile bits so if you get bits
for those they will fit in our
screwdriver as well they are not
proprietary they are
just optimized for our screwdriver and
they are
unusual okay okay now I want to I want
to play a little game tan saying I think
we were saying I think we were more
saying uh the short bits make bit
wrenches super nice oh okay well I know
for a fact I found them for sale
elsewhere as well yeah like I I don't
I'm pretty sure they're not proprietary
basically our short bits are cool yeah
okay so this what's that is a prototype
of the Precision what's that oh this is
a prototype of our bit holder because
obviously we're not just going to have a
screwdriver don't worry about it uh
although although
although okay that's pretty cool nice oh
casual casual magnetic is it is it
mechanism for the parts tray is there
magnets in the parts tray uh not now but
yes nice yeah nice any who any who any
who
um short bits are not moronic people who
think there are moronic just don't
understand it improves the magnetism and
it's not just a phas dad and uh makes it
fit more things and it's really useful
for those other things got them anyway
um while we're doing the next one I'm
going to play a little game where I'm
going to spin this see if it stops
before we're done and we're gonna see if
it stops before we're done because that
ceramic bearing in the top is freaking
awesome okay you barely touched it and
it's still going I was gonna offer as
well got another one here
too okay hold on hold on hold on hold on
I'm gonna give it a really good spin you
got oh sorry this is a hybrid bearing
hybrid hybrid ceramic bearing thanks
tinan uh Tan's got my back okay I mean
there's ceramic in it so I wasn't wrong
about that the ceramic one was too loud
I remember now okay okay okay ready Dan
uhhuh go
hi dll other than it has to get done do
you have advice on how to keep your
workflow or focus on tasks that you
don't find as much passion in also Luke
change your mind uh change my mind tarov
is a Rog
likee well for me the big one is that
I oh man I'm very
distractable a lot of the time I really
do just end up doing it in little chunks
um yeah I think I think one way to do it
is to reward yourself for the completion
or I do it really late at night yes when
I can be super I can focus way better
late at night I I like turn on at
probably around 9:00 p.m. yeah and it
doesn't really like turn off until like
3:00 a.m. 4:00 a.m. and I can be laser
focused and get stuff done gamer timing
also yeah it's close to it uh except
that you can re-extract which I think is
maybe the issue where it fails but there
you go
it's still
going it's still
going and
it's
wow yeah
wow she's a
goer that's wild
anyway
um we we we we know we know who our
audience is we see
you
how do you have one at home
Dan uh prototype because I was using
them for a while no no we we' is 3D
printed one oh okay yeah we've issued
them to people to get feedback though
this is very close to done do you have
one of the hybrid ceramic bearing
ones yes yeah um and I've expressed my
complaints about that yeah new ones are
even better I had one I had one of the
first bearing prototypes with the
ceramic oh they're still amazing still
amazing they're too loud though you mean
the the just trying to make sure you
didn't steal it I'll go get it no we
we've issued you're you're good don't
trust me at all do you I feel like
remote Dan is like like dark side Dan or
something I'm like I'm scared of remote
Dan's
power got a lot of power I don't even
have to I don't even have to be near you
to ruin
Theo don't ruin the W show um any who so
Sebastian has built quite a lot of these
in various configurations to get
feedback from people and make sure that
everything's good one of the really cool
things that the team did is rather than
using
um a retaining pin like the uh the
mechanism for the bit storage does in
the full size driver it's magnetic in
this one so in theory it should have
even better longevity cool and it's it
also just
is so satisfying again again we see
you yeah this is uh a lot of people have
been like oh the relationship with iFix
it ended best friend now you know
whoever what but not at all we are not
going head tohe head with iix it our
driver is going to be at a very
different price point for one thing this
is not free uh the development wasn't
free we think it's a really great driver
I think people are really going to love
it but I fix it is probably going to be
more affordable for the foreseeable
future and I fix it has a wide range of
products that
we couldn't even if we wanted to
couldn't
replicate like we are not going to get
into adhesive strips for putting the
screen back onto your iMac that's not
happening we're not going to create
guides we're not going to have this
comprehensive we're not going to partner
with valve for steam deck replacement
parts
so the way that we see it and the way
we've as we've discussed with iFixit is
this relationship continues we both have
very similar values we both have a very
similar Mission we want things to be
more repairable we want things to be
more upgradeable we don't want things in
landfills and so what we have a
screwdriver so what we're not going to
like partner anymore that would feel
kind of ridiculous did we want to
develop a screwdriver I mean yeah we did
but no we're not going to we're not
going to terminate our relationship if I
fix it over that that would be silly
yeah what wouldn't be silly is picking
the next topic oh yeah sure I think is
that right are we doing that Dan I think
so it just says when after dark on the
screen so I don't know what to
do okay Luke do you want to pick a topic
I will try to do so uh teenager
criminally charged for Snapchat joke
British citizen uh aditia Verma I hope
I'm saying that right sure probably
didn't uh is currently being tried in
Spain for causing public disorder over a
2022 airport security incident he was
boarding a plane to the Spanish island
of Minorca uh 18-year-old Verma jokingly
messaged the friends he was traveling
with over Snapchat
quote uh quote on my way to blow up the
plane and then in Brackets I'm a member
of the Taliban which I have now said uh
into a microphone on the internet uh
look I'm not saying Hitler was right oh
my God man I don't even have to be in
the same room and and you guys just ruin
the way show
yourself oh no I think yours is worse
probably oh gez according according to
court
testimony it's it's assumed that the
message was picked up via gatwick's
Wi-Fi network no Verma says that was oh
interesting Verma says that he was not
using gatwick's Wi-Fi but it's unclear
whether or not the messages recipients
were UK Security Services then alerted
Spanish authorities who scrambled Two
fighter jets no way to es what is a
fighter jet going to do if someone is on
board a plane threatening to blow it up
you blow up that plane I'll shoot it
with a missile we'll blow it up before
you can blow it up you can't quit you're
fire pun intended
that is an interesting one that was
there's like let me get that for you oh
thank you oh thank you there's more on
the keyword yeah nice perfect
um uh wow okay um yeah the Two fighter
jets were were scrambled to escort the
plane until it landed Verma was arrested
in Spain and later questioned by British
intelligence wow note there are frequent
claims on the internet that Snapchat
encrypts pictures and videos but not
plain text messages however Snapchat's
own website makes no such claim and only
says that the messages sent via its
service are private
private well I mean there's plenty of
messages sent on Snapchat that are of
privates I come on I get nothing for
that yeah nothing what I spit on your
computer one time too busy I I spit on
your computer one time I get nothing was
pretty
I'm going to do it
myself he's going to ding he's going to
ding he's going to ding there it is very
nice without Dan's mic are they able to
hear that very well I don't know doesn't
matter it's the principle of the thing
yeah yeah fair enough um It came it came
through fine nice perfect Jessica said
it seems likely that if it were endtoend
encrypted uh that they would say so
which I completely agree with um if
found guilty Verma could be fined around
$224,000 and made to pay over a 100
grand for the Spanish military's
extremely useful in this case to fighter
jets uh yeah wow very interesting
discussion question is scanning messages
sent over on public Wi-Fi a reasonable
security precaution is the average
person using public Wi-Fi or SnapChat
aware that this is even a possibility is
this a proportionate response on the
part of Spanish authorities so here's
the thing no Buddy's
18 I probably would have made an edgy
joke as I'm driving to the Border about
you know smuggling something when I was
18 I know better now I've heard I don't
know if this is actually true but I've
heard there are microphones they so they
can listen to you in your car while you
wait to cross the border I don't know if
it's true me neither but I always say
nice things but I just I just keep don't
say anything I just keep my damn mouth
shut yeah any time i'm anywhere near an
airport anywhere near a border anywhere
near a customs officer it's
just not worth it yeah but at 18
like I don't know man like do we really
want to crush his life for a joke but
then like an 18-year-old can definitely
you know commit a crime yep
so dude I don't know I um wonder what
the age distribution for crimes
are I don't know Financial ones way over
here other more different ones probably
less there that's interesting too type
of crime a age distribution yeah like
like what's the average murderer age
yeah you know what's the average uh you
know being any age I suspect it's
actually probably younger fairly
specific probably skew younger for like
breaking enter break entering physical
crimes probably skew younger Financial
crimes you be like senior citizen like
trying to you
know yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah old fist
of cuffs yeah um difference between
smuggling and terrorist threats yeah
sure but it like they're going to flag
it one way or the other the response
will just be different and the question
our discussion question was should they
be monitoring that I
mean what I would want to say is they
should have had a proportional response
based on that he clearly wasn't
organized enough to be you know not
using public Wi-Fi or not using freaking
Snapchat for the communication but the
flip side of that is like have you ever
looked up dumb criminal montages like
that's how they catch criminals is that
criminals are dumb as
so
yeah uh it's pretty obviously a joke to
me but it's not going to be obviously a
joke to everyone um but I mean finding
him
$124,000 when he's
18 um like he's going to have to declare
bankruptcy that's that's lifechanging
stuff right there can you declare
bankruptcy on a
government fine like that I don't know I
don't know how bankruptcy works I've
never been bankrupt yeah me
too I know you can't for student loans
cuz you hear that that on the internets
oh yeah yeah yeah no that's that's like
a thing I think that's a thing at least
in the states can you can can you for
this isn't in the States but can you do
that for defamation settlements I have
no idea yeah I don't know I don't
know uh sponsors sure
yeah the show is brought to you today by
ag1
there it is have you been neglecting
your daily nutritional intake ag1 is a
convenient supplemental drink to help
fill in some of those nutritional blind
spots one scoop has 75 different
vitamins minerals and antioxidants and
ag1 is made to promote gut health and
give you a little pickme up in the
morning it's made without artificial
flavors or sweeteners so you can enjoy
it by yourself or add it to a quick
breakfast
smoothie they have a high standard of
sourcing to ensure the best ingredients
and even a few members of our team use
ag1 it's great for vegan paleo and keto
diet folks out there plus if you're
already taking lots of different
vitamins every day ag1 might save you a
few bucks so start with ag1 and take
ownership of your health you can get a
free one-year supply of vitamin D3 plus
K2 and five free ag1 travel packs with
your first purchase exclusively I don't
know if this is actually exclusive to us
at drink a1.com
wow the show is also brought to you by
Squarespace what when show well that's
what it's called Squarespace is an
all-in-one platform that makes it easy
to get your website up and running
quickly they have lots of beautiful
templates for you to start from zero and
with their easyuse website builder you
can move things around and change text
without any coding experience at all
their templates cover all kinds of
businesses and
Squarespace is consistently improving
now they have templates for courses it's
perfect for Fields like cooking classes
makeup classes and than any online
teaching programs
Squarespace also offers Marketing
Solutions like built-in SEO tools email
campaigns and social tools you can get
all these things done on one platform
and then if you want to take your site
to another level
Squarespace can also help you match up
with an expert oh that's cool they can
help you polish an existing site or
build a new one from scratch oh that's
super cool so go to
squarespace.com slw and get 10% off
today/ when finally the show is brought
to you by
vessie it
rained 149 out of 365 days in 2023 here
in Vancouver but thank goodness we had
vessie our sponsor to keep our socks dry
B's here to help you walk through
puddles instead of around them uh I
still wouldn't do that because yeah you
see how his foot splashed there that can
definitely hit the cuff of your other
leg pant leg yeah see that yeah see your
your your pants will get wet actually at
the okay yeah that one's not too bad
that's a controlled walk but the other
one was pretty pretty hardcore anyway
the point is their shoes are stylish and
comfortable and most importantly they
say 100% a waterproof uh one like your
rubbermade rain boots that are
unbreathable vessie weaves waterproofing
technology into the knit to keep them
Breezy they have all kinds of different
shoes for different occasions from
slippers to their most adventure ready
Ulta high top which is designed to take
on slippery slush slushy chilly winter
conditions not much of an adventurer
their weekend and everyday classic
sneakers are great for just wearing a
boat cleaning is super easy for the
weekend shoes they are machine washable
or you can just wipe them with a sponge
so don't let the rain stop you from
moving with a 365 day guarantee you can
leave your wet socks in the past by
heading to vy.com wow to get 15% off
your purchase with code W
show thank you thank you for helping
with that no
problem
oh it's time for Merch messages Dan why
don't you go ahead and hit
me am I supposed to be doing this as
well I don't know if I have this in me
well
try hey dll my mother recently received
a USB to USBC Cable in the mall in the
mail uh that she didn't order cut it up
and threw it away but I'm wondering how
a scam like this would be cost effective
was it a bad one did you did you run it
through a tester there are testers to
find out if they're malicious cables um
but I would not imagine a scam like that
that to be particularly cost
effective depending on it depends if
they're targeted like if if this
person's mom works in um like a medical
field or something like that and they
they were trying to Target them for for
patient data or something then
absolutely it would be cost effective
but yeah I I know certain uh medical
procedures she performs wow no I'm I'm
just I'm just wow wow
[Laughter]
uh yeah I I can't imagine just randomly
shipping out a th000 USB cables it
depends though be valuable if they're
the ones that are uh that that you can
that you know have Wi-Fi and stuff built
into them like if it's an OMG cable or
something like that is definitely not
cost effective those are quite expensive
but if all it has in it is a tiny amount
of storage and it just
farts a little payload onto your
computer yeah I still think it would
probably need to be targeted though cuz
like you're still paying shipping all
this other kind of stuff and what what
do you shipping is cheap in the UK
though and like there's a lot of places
actually that shipping is
superada Canadian shipping Canadian
shipping is BR send a cable to someone
it's like
$15 be down the road yeah uh yeah oh
Cohen lemon says uh you would Target a
neighborhood where it's it's just
generally wealthier
people so you just send them to like a
wealthy zip code you totally do that
with with shipping too so yeah I mean it
could it could be like I would call that
I'm just making this up on the spot but
I would call that like soft targeting
when database Arthur you don't know the
half of it Royal Mail is super cheap
compared to what we have to
pay I mean it makes sense you guys are
like little tiny Eeny weeny know that
you don't own the whole world how it
feel got
him yeah their their ruler is still on
our money so yeah why do we have to have
stupid Charles on the money so stupid I
didn't even mind it when it was
Elizabeth she seemed generally not the
stupidest at least it didn't like her
her whole thing with the the car was
very funny I'm going to screw up that
story if I try to sell it so I'm just
not um but yeah and at least it didn't
like
change like we we had to incur I'm
assuming a relatively significant
expense to like reprint a bunch of money
well no they don't reprint it they just
print what they like okay print so just
change design and continue forward yeah
that's not too bad but like eventually
they do recall old series and and issue
new series yeah that's generally for
security more than it is for just like
yeah yeah it's it's a different old
person on the thing I thought they
issued a redesign I I didn't really
follow it though yeah I mean was still
design time there's
still it's still a pain
but anyway yeah why not put more loons
or geese on the money yeah I mean I'd be
I'd be I'd be down why don't we put
freaking Terry Fox on the money yeah
like well for what for like limited
series or something no just put him on
there I didn't think it was oh is he I
don't know I I never carry cash anymore
money I thought he was on $5 bill or
something like we have Canadian heroes
in 2020 a short list of eight Bank
notable Canadians uh were to be
portrayed on the $5 vertical polymer
bills in place of Lauer uh five 600
nominees Terry Fox so yeah I guess it
was limited I didn't realize it was
limited well that's stupid it should
just be it should just be Terry Fox
forever yeah like for for real for real
guys uh if you don't know who Terry Fox
is he's an absolute unit you should go
read about him it's one of the most
inspiring stories that you will ever
here he's incredible what a Chad yeah
absolute
unit all right apparently for a limited
time he was also on our
Looney well it should just be all the
time yeah yeah yeah yeah okay you heard
it here first yeah we're advocating for
Terry Fox on all the money instead of
King Charles yeah like how many how many
greater thans would we need and
the Tim those two things should happen
Okay I don't know that I would want the
Canadian government running it but how
about some Canadians yeah how about that
fair enough okay we can agree on that
yeah very good very good very good very
good how many marathons is Charles run
fewer than Terry
probably and Terry didn't finish one
what was at the end of the marathon what
was the goal for for Charles I'm I'm not
finished to be clear he finished a lot
of marathon distances but I mean the one
the marathon and you guys will have to
read about him if you want to learn
about Terry
okay yeah okay yeah remember having
Terry Fox day and sports events at
school yeah it was great I love that
they did that they still do great yeah
Terry Fox day is totally still thing
that's very good we should have Terry
Fox day forever
yeah until we get a better Canadian than
Terry Fox we should have Terry Fox day
yeah good luck so we'll have Terry Fox
day forever
yeah I feel like that's a thing that
would actually get Canadians like really
riled up if people tried to like go in
on Terry Fox oh that would be guns out
time yeah unacceptable I'm talking these
but you know yeah no unacceptable yeah
yeah man don't go after Terry Fox yeah
man I'd be really angry D me too I would
actually I can see his face you went
there for a second no man oh boy oh you
don't oh man yeah you know you
don't leave Terry alone
yeah oh man all right all right next
one sure hey lldd I've just finished my
first week at my first job at 19 and I
love it though I struggle to keep my
personal life from affecting my work and
do not want it to affect this one any
advice that's tough man like
um
I don't think it's
possible like I think I speak for both
of us when I say there have been times
when our personal lives have affected
work oh yeah and affected like our work
with each other yeah in a negative way
to be clear like and probably vice versa
but yes in a negative way for sure yeah
yeah
well okay okay here's an example I've
had a pretty
5 months or so I think it's probably
affected how short I've been sometimes
I'm not proud of it oh
off you can't see my face either
but oh man oh man okay sorry don't make
me spit on your
laptop oh
all right sorry that was a serious
moment anyway the point is do your best
right um other people don't deserve to
deal with your baggage and if you have
the right mindset about it the
relationships you build at work and the
things you do at work can be an oasis um
there there have been times in my life
when I'd rather be working there have
been times where I I didn't want to go
home cuz by working I was very focused
yep so uh I'm not saying that that's
healthy I'm just saying that you should
you should try try to make the most of
of it uh wow I don't know how to say
your name but someone someone in Philip
chat said 19 is too young to be mature
enough to keep mentally separate he will
get there that's another thing that
honestly I would back up a little bit it
I find it gets a little easier to to
kind of split things when you need to
and to emotionally moderate as you get
older I have found that personally I
don't know how I mean hormonally it
makes sense cuz you just kind of get a
little they start decreasing yeah you
get you get just a little more um a
little less Juiced yeah pretty literally
yeah
um yeah I don't know it's tough though
there's going to be times where you're
not going to be able to completely do it
step one is recognizing that it's a
potential problem though yes that can
help a lot being cognizant of it is huge
analyze in a in a situation and and try
to figure out like okay I'm not going to
be able to handle this properly do I
need to remove myself from this scenario
and it helps not take things personally
like if someone's like you
know yo you know the this work isn't up
to your usual standard uh we need an
improvement you know like let's let's
say you end up in a coaching session or
something because it's been go it was
ongoing for a while and it's like really
affecting the quality of the work
hypothetically right so if you can
basically go hey hey I am not being
attacked this is I am capable of more
and I need to and I need to refocus if I
if I want to perform at the way that you
know I want to perform which will be
good for my career um I'm being
compensated for ET ET all of this right
you know assumes that everyone's acting
in good faith right like you might just
have like a shy boss or something like
that and they're just beating you up or
or whatever right like I yeah I'm
assuming a best case scenario where
where you're you're in a job that you
know has in you're in a healthy
workplace environment at a at a healthy
company where where feedback is given in
a in a respectful professional manner
but um there's definitely ways that you
can utilize being aware of it to to help
to to modulate
yourself moderate yourself both I guess
yeah it
worked but yeah I mean you're going to
go through some stuff um I think as
people start getting into their 20s and
30s like grandparents start to kind of
pass away at a fairly High rate Den is
giv me a posture check on float plane
sorry thank you Dan
Vale every Everybody Take the posture
check um but yeah you start kind of
going through some stuff um relatives
passing away um yeah relationship is a
big one it's like relationship maybe
maybe you'll break up with your
significant other y or maybe your
significant other going through
something and that'll be worse yes to be
completely honest yep seen that before
and and what if your significant others
going through something really really
hard and the support of that person is
very draining and you're just gassed out
emotionally when you get to work um like
there's there's there's just so many
different things that can come up that
can make emotional regulation difficult
and that will affect your
work so just try your
best next one no we don't don't need a
shock caller for posture checks Cory G
I've spent enough of my life with a
shock CER
on man the one Elijah got for that video
is flipping
crazy like I think medy actually felt
bad about shocking me with it and
normally he just shocks me because he
thinks it's hilarious and he has no
remorse
[Laughter]
whatsoever it's very painful that's
rough all right hit me
Dan Hi l D scrapyard Wars is what
brought me to your channel love to hear
it's returning can you share any details
about it I love to see the content about
older and budget good enough Hardware uh
right now the only thing that I can
share is that we are shopping it to
sponsors as soon as we have one we're
going to lock in some production dates
the concept is really good but I don't
want to say what it is yet because I
would love for it to just be a surprise
I don't even think I know what it is no
you don't oh I think that gives you an
unfair Advantage sir uh no it doesn't oh
okay yeah it'll be fine sounds good yeah
I'm excited if anything this will be the
most Fair one in a very long
time oh wait I think I do know what it
is oh okay well then sh
yeah yep
okay oh more topics okay let's do
topics Luke what do you want to do for a
topic uh
we've got whoa something's happening to
the dock what what's going
on is itone just like drawing smiley
faces was that you what the the teenager
criminally charged for Snapchat joke
there's just like
random oh no I mashed your
keyboard it made a bunch of smiley faces
that's amazing um okay oh here hold on
hold on really quick here guys so here's
what he's talking about um I had planned
to do this this week someone posted on
oh go yeah I even brought my Apple TV uh
but someone posted on Reddit after I had
complained last week about how it was
impossible for me to cancel my Apple
arcade subscription from my Apple TV uh
someone posted saying they didn't
appreciate um the the negligence and the
way that I ranted about it without
actually checking if it was true um I
responded on Reddit saying hey um I see
your screenshot that shows you are able
to cancel
I don't know if this is a regional
difference I don't know if it's a change
it's definitely something I experienced
here's a link to someone else who
experience the same thing that also
links to Apple's own support
documentation that verifies that there
is no way to cancel it on Apple arcade
or without installing iTunes so I don't
know what to tell you they deleted the
post we had a good chat about it in the
pre-show they're actually a float plane
subscriber so we're all cool
everything's cool but I had intended to
do a segment where I try it live I'm
going to subscribe to Apple arcade again
and then I'm going to try to unsubscribe
uh but Dan isn't in this week so I guess
we're going to do it next week I'm just
letting you guys know I haven't
forgotten about it and I do want to get
to the bottom of that I suspect it's a
regional requirement could be some some
country requires you to be able to
cancel it through whatever something
well now that we know that Apple plans
to allow third party
marketplaces allow um in the EU only
it's very clear that Apple has
Regional cap different flows depending
on the region and that they can do that
yeah or at least they will at that time
yeah uh gaming is still bleeding jobs so
far in 2024 the gaming industry has lost
a total of around
jobs um I know this isn't just gaming
industry but if you go to layoffs.fyi
which is a pretty cool website um it
shows that in 2024 so far 91 tech
companies with layoffs have uh
accumulated 24,5 164 employees laid off
um that isn't just gaming though that's
that's like tech industry in general so
those those are definitely different
things uh more than half of the job
losses seen in the gaming industry at
least over the C
uh told around 5670 jobs more than half
the job losses seen over the course of
last year yeah so we've already lost
over half as many jobs in
2024 as we did in all of
yeah maybe in gaming specifically yeah
not not in Tech because Tech was over
250,000 last year yeah um so I I just
keep inserting Tech even though that's
not what the topic is talking about at
all which is which is very cool of me um
however about confusion and a lack of
communication meaning they didn't know
whether or not they still have a job
Riot games has announced they're laying
off around 11% of their Global staff 530
employees while CEO Dylan uh jadea they
put in the pronunciation that's sick W
shout out Jessica and Riley yeah Juda
claimed uh quote as CEO I'm accountable
for the changes we're making and where
we're headed heading in the future he
likewise described these layoffs as the
result of several risky management
decisions including the company doubling
its headcount over the course of only a
few years and taking big bets in 2019
that didn't pay off it is unclear from
the memo whether Riot leadership will be
undergoing any changes or sustaining any
pay cut notably Juda was pres uh
president of the company for six years
before becoming CEO in 2023 Riot says
they will be offering uh departing staff
at least six months of severance pay uh
with a top up to cover their health
benefits six months of access to job
placement services and a laptop for job
search purposes if they don't have one
holy crap that's really generous that's
insanely generous uh laid off staff
holding work visas will be given
additional support to Aid them with
their immigration status that's that's
pretty good I mean our discussion
question is is there a right way to
handle layoffs I'd say even half of that
would have been pretty darn right way
very
like yeah yeah that's that's a lot half
a year salary is wild that's really
outstanding I mean that would that would
give me a lot of confidence
to apply to a company like Riot knowing
that okay I'm either if it doesn't work
out if it doesn't work out these are
people who when they make a mistake they
make a good faith effort to deal with it
yeah like yeah sometimes you hire
someone and you know what this project
it doesn't make sense anymore um but at
least they're they're taking it on the
chin they're eating the cost dude 530
employees six Monon salaries yeah that's
millions and millions of dollars wow
like they are they are putting their
money where their mouth is and taking
care
of taking care of the errors that
management made that led to these
redundancies I think that's really
that's huge wow yep that's that's a big
move yeah love to see it you know what
I'd love to see a lot less than
that this is great I hope you haven't
read this yet during a recent CNBC
interview huet Packard CEO Enrique lores
oh made a series of what are uh
described in our in our notes as
inflammatory statements um in other
words he was a raging
shitthead he said that customers who Buy
printers are and this is a quote an
investment and that if that customer
doesn't buy enough ink and supplies they
are a bad investment I would Hazard to
believe they're selling their printers
at a loss if they were I would maybe
understand the statement I'm not sure
I'm convinced of that anymore I
seriously doubt they do luras further
stated that in the long term HP wants to
make printing a subscription that is a
direct quote which will reduce the
barriers to printing are youing
listening to yourself
sir could you be more out of
touch commercial okay fine let's talk
about that for my inkjet ass printer
that I use like once every six
months
no if I want to buy a little syringe
needle nonsense thing and inject some
stupid crappy third party ink into my
thing because it clogged and I don't
feel like getting a brand new
one I'm going to I'm going to do that
they put they put chips in their ink
cartridges now do you know that yeah and
and let's talk about that for a second
because the next point which I I have
great this is great enraged me I want I
wanted to do it but you you do it you do
it I I took all your topics today you do
it l L's likewise alleged that viruses
can be embedded in third-party
cartridges and used uh to infect a
user's Network through their printer
research firm actionable intelligence
proved that this kind of attack was
theoretically possible in 2022 in
response to an HP bug Bounty but HP has
acknowledged that there are no known
cases uh such as a such as a hack that
have occurred um what would be crazy if
you stopped making them that way so that
this wasn't possible why does the
cartridge have them it's your
fault
okay discussion question when will the
EU come for HP hopefully quickly now
yeah do are there any EU Regulators like
can we can we get can can I get in touch
cuz I have ideas like I'm I'm down if
any if anyone actually like has the ear
of anyone who works at any like EU
regulatory bodies that deal with this
kind of stuff man I'd be happy to chat I
want to chat Consul look I'm not saying
that government regulation is the answer
to everything I'll meet you on your
hours it's
not but when this is what's happening if
this is what the free market says is
okay then we because the the terrible
things that we're currently doing might
be dangerous for you if you try to
circumvent
them
what we opened up this attack Vector we
opened Pandora's Box so now um you know
that's not on us that's on you no off
man yeah Q Capal KLA 42 says #f
framework printer don't imagine for a
second I haven't brought it up the issue
is that there's a small handful of
companies that own
basically every printer related
intellectual property thing mhm good
fraking
luck yeah that makes sense darn
it
that was that was like I was laughing
during the I I did I did read this ahead
of time I was laughing during the first
paragraph and I was enraged during the
second one just what a joke yeah what a
joke gross we need to sell you armor
because our car randomly tries to stab
you in the chest yeah it's like
what make it stop doing that yeah like
yeah how about just don't do
that anyways what else we got today oh
my God we have uh we had so many product
announcements that I just like didn't
even talk
about um okay did we even talk about
this I'm so sorry I know I don't think
so I've been wearing it for the show how
did we have so many product things today
that is this is a lot of stuff we have a
short circuit t-shirt it's like the
short circuit long sleeve but it's a
t-shirt look how cool it
is yeah damn that's a cool shirt it's
pretty cool yeah yeah and there's but
wait there's more we have a white shirt
now it's 100% cotton for people who like
oh it's just a plain white shirt 100%
cotton sweet and it's it's got a really
great hand feel still even though it's
not the same material as our typical
shirt uh it's a bit heavier uh oh yeah
look at that okay heavier whatever this
were grams per square meter I I forget
what this is I made that up that maybe
is what it is but it's a little bit on
the heavier side to um
to to hide those to be a little less
see-through pure white shirts as cool as
they are can have some see-through
issues so but really similar fit to our
6040 cotton poly's and uh looks great
all the way from extra small to Tri XL I
think that's what HP does when they sell
you printers yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
we've all seen the bit yeah yeah yeah
yeah um was there anything else CRA I
think you did everything else okay did I
did I hit everything else I think so
yeah okay all right um um yeah I don't
know maybe we'll just talk about them
again next week or something like that
and try try and double dip yeah we'll be
like apple we'll just double dip and
then do a and you got to pay a
subscription once we send it to you you
got to send us our like protection
money for your shirt yeah
um uh next topic uh yeah why no super
review oh Nvidia launched the RTX 470
super last week on the 17th and we'll be
launching the 480 super super next week
on January 31st there was also a 4070 TI
super I think I can't remember which
other super there was it doesn't matter
the point is we haven't done an LTT
review of either of them um because we
didn't feel like dealing with nvidia's
six embargos six for this
launch for all for each of the three
cards and remember Guys these are not
new gpus these are a thing that we
already had but like slightly reaj
jiggered six and they had six embargos
is that three per card that is two per
card there were three cards oh yeah so
there's an unboxing embargo for each
card review embargo and then a review
embargo oh wait did I say six I meant
nine embargos so or maybe it's not nine
because at least one of them has a
separate review embargo for the founders
Edition and for the aib cards I can't I
can't remember but basically I saw the
schedule and I said okay number one
off
Nvidia Just Launch them Just Launch them
we'll be happy to review them we'll put
them all together number
two I just I'm sorry but I just I just
think
it's ridiculous for our viewers to have
to dig through all these different
videos you know you want nine videos
yeah no but because every one of the
like following videos is just going to
be all the graphs you just looked at
with one more data point on it so we
made the decision when we saw this to do
one review video what a Terry move of
the new super lineup thank you um it
wasn't just my decision we talked about
it as a team we just looked at it we
went this is
absurd maybe you know if we have time
we'll do a couple of them on short
circuit but no we're going to do our
review of super you guys can just watch
one
video you'll know everything you need to
know about super the super 4,000 yeah
exactly sounds cooler yeah no just just
ridiculous so instead you guys got the
you know how we're parallelizing our GPU
benchmarking video which is going to be
super cool super cool get it uh because
and you won't necessarily see it on the
super review here but in future we are
going to be able
to hopefully massively increase the
number of fresh results that we can have
on our Benchmark charts um because as
you guys know we retest as long as there
isn't a new driver what was that did you
hear that yeah uh I opened a video on
YouTube and I guess it was still piped
through cool okay the point is
um okay okay we're muted no the the the
video yeah okay uh the point is that we
are so we're able to provide fresh
testing data and we'll be able to
provide so much more so as long as there
um unless as long as
there unless there hasn't been a driver
update at all no OS updates no driver
updates we retest and we'll be able to
do that with a much much wider pipe with
the three CPUs that we have found are
within I think it ended up being like
0.25% of each other um in productivity
it doesn't matter it's in the video
speaking of memorized you should watch
that too cuz you're talking about GPU
testing but the CPU testing video was
sick no no no that's for GPU testing oh
it's the same thing yeah no no no no no
no no it's not the same thing no I meant
you're we're talking about the same
video we were talking about the same
video and a lot of people misunderstood
that um we are validating CPUs that are
the intro explains it pretty well it's
just a long video nearly identical to
each other so that when we are doing GPU
testing
we can test three gpus at a time instead
of one GPU at a time stand bench has a
Delta of what was it 8% or something I
don't remember what the percentage was
it was as much as 8% and I think that
was in factorio or something like that
if it has that much of a Delta then all
your results are screwed so you you need
similar platforms for standardization
and um so so a lot of people seemed
really confused by that video like I
remember seeing one bit of feedback on
it that we
should um if we oh man I forget what it
was but it was basically like no you
should just rerun The Benchmark more
times and I'm like no no no we already
we already do that this is that that's
not what that is not what we're talking
about at all we already do multiple runs
and then uh the outliers go away and
then the median or me or whatever we
have smart people who do that stuff um
yeah really cool video that kind of
thing doesn't get a lot of views but
what it is is it's foundational so when
the lab's website is fully launched when
we start to populate it with articles
this is what we're going to be able to
kind of Point people to and go okay yeah
this is the rigor that is going on
behind the scenes so that when you guys
just see a graph on the lab's website
you'll know it's good to go and in a way
I'm actually I'm really looking forward
to the lab's website because there's
going to be so much less possibility for
human error like even in that video
after all the after all the QC there
were like there were I think two bars
that were oh CU you can update it
mislabeled one of them was 1% and one of
them said one it said 1% when it was
supposed to be averag and it average
when it supposed to be 1% but when
everything's coming straight out of the
results
database and the graphs are just
automatically generated we don't have to
worry about human input creating
graphical assets that' be nice it's
going to be so there could still be
issues with anyways whatever nothing is
infallible yeah but it'll be nice but it
there will be less human Intervention
which is and with the site at least even
if there are still issues uh we can
update it um a lot of people asked and
this is a question that's coming up here
why not just force the clock
speed do you do
that do you run your computer like
that no oh it's actually a surprisingly
unrealistic thing in current year yep
100% so uh no we we think it's wor the
work of making sure that we are running
the system the way that you would run
the system so that's why we that's why
when it was time
to get over 10 CPUs we went for a modern
top tier chip because we want to see
what the maximum difference that we can
see in these gpus is assuming that we
can reduce the other system bottlenecks
as much as we can and we spent the time
testing it to make sure that we have
consistency we're going to have to
continue to revalidate and with every
new platform we're going to have to do
this process
again but you guys are worth it you guys
are worth it these things take time man
like I think I think a lot of people are
are looking at the slow progress in the
lab going like oh yeah you know like why
is it so slow you know why why were
there M Engineering takes time and it's
just like guys because there's always
going to be a little bit of learning as
we go and these things take
time yeah it's good keep getting better
though that I can promise you it's going
to keep getting better oh yeah it was a
great
video it was fun doesn't get a lot of
views that kind of thing but is what it
is unfortunately that's okay we're just
going to do it because we care and at
the end of the day if those kinds of
videos just don't get views then that's
fine we'll have the
website but we still want everything we
do to have this Foundation that's what
we are building towards that's the
that's the vision from our chief
optometrist I still like Chief eyeball
officer but anyways uh Disney's Hol deck
Disney has unveiled a working model of
what they're calling the world's first
multi-person omnidirectional modular
expandable treadmill floor okay I
intentionally have not watched this
video yet because it sounds too good to
be true yeah and if I was going to be
disappointed
I wanted it to happen in front of y'all
so this is this is not actually a this
week thing I've already seen this this
is from last week but it's sick uh okay
that looked amazing uh
yeah are you kidding me
no how does it no they also are they
just all on bearings like what am I
looking at well it's it's always pulling
you kind of to the middle-ish how do you
stand still multiple people
shut up multiple people one
platform and you can tell even just by
how he stands and in an earlier portion
of the video you see him walk into the
room and some of uh his natural gate
actually makes it look I think like it's
not working as well as it is just cuz
he's a bit of a shuffler a little bit of
a shuffler yeah which makes you think
that it's maybe not doing as well but
you see him walking on normal floor
beforehand you can kind of see that
happening um I think it's incredibly
impressive uh people say can you run
I there's uh Visual Evidence of that but
I think they say that you can they have
a really really cool moves yeah they
have a really cool demo somewhere in the
video yeah that's okay you guys should
go watch it are you talking about him
sitting on the chair and them rolling
him around on it yes what the heck so
that's at like 4 minutes and 30 yeah go
check out the video they also show not
even a person which I think is
incredibly interesting I think it's like
a a teaser at the end or something I
don't remember what it is but they show
and you should watch it uh when he's
sitting on the chair they're like
whipping it around he's moving very fast
which is also interesting um at one
point in time they just put an Apple box
with no one on it and it just cruises
around on it and they make it
move this is wild which is incredibly
interesting for a huge amount of
applications cuz it's directional
conveyor belt at that point I just hope
Disney doesn't patent it and then oh
they're like definitely only use it in
their Parks oh they're like definitely
going to do that and then they did say
it has applications in other things so I
suspect they might try to patent it but
I also suspect they might try to like
license it out to other people okay um
because they talked about how his has
applications and a wide variety of
things not just their perks yeah so I
hope it just doesn't end up so there's
like one ride yeah you know you know
some Star Wars
experience and that's the only place
that ever exists ever you get like
forced pulled or something yeah
yeah guys oh my God I wasn't done the
sentence guys I know they're going to
patent
it
um I just don't want it to only exist in
one theme park experience and then
nowhere else okay our last big topic for
the week Twitter pumps Mr Beast video
this is kind of hilarious who didn't see
this coming Mr Beast recently uploaded a
video to Twitter in order to test how
many views and how much revenue it could
get on the platform it seems that
Twitter being the you know
totally um Fair platform that it is you
know Town Square Etc decided to put a
Thum on the scale Mr BEAST's video was
heavily promoted by official Twitter
accounts by Elon Musk himself and by
Twitter's advertising platform as an
unlabeled ad very cool uh many Twitter
users complained that the video was
absolutely everywhere and that they
would sometimes see it again and again
while they were scrolling uh it was only
obvious that the post was classified as
an ad if the user clicked on a drop down
menu and you can actually see this down
below report ad why this
ad uh Mr Beast made around a quar
million dollars from this video which he
has already allocated to prizes in a
giveaway I believe he actually announced
the winners of the of the giveaway today
he gave 10 random followers on Twitter
$25,000
each um so our discussion question is
what is the point of
this they gave Mr Beast a big hunk of
cash that they know is not
representative of typical revenue for a
video on the
site I think they were hoping to get
away with it if Jimmy's future content
doesn't perform the same way that this
one did he's not going to keep uploading
if other creators see you singling out
Jimmy and then don't achieve similar
results they're not going to keep
uploading yeah
yeah my assumption is they uh were're
hoping they wouldn't notice look with
all of that said if Twitter configure
this out if they can be a viable video
platform with actual you know Evergreen
content discoverability because that's
what YouTube does yeah that's what
YouTube does well that Twitter sucks
at pretty much everyone sucks at hey uh
I'm I'm kind of a video creator like are
are sorry I'm sorry are we talking
incremental views like like bigger
audience okay sign me up there is no
competing VOD platform but so if there
was a competing VOD platform that would
be good for everyone I hate Twitter I I
am on extensively on record very much
disliking Twitter oh yeah and it has
nothing to do with the chief twit right
now it doesn't actually you've hated
just always hated Twitter but if there
was a competing vaud platform that was
viable yes that would be good for
everyone but it would have to actually
be competing which has been the problem
every time y so like good luck all right
good luck everybody Netflix that's not
yeah that's very different thing yeah uh
we're talking user generated content mhm
I am going to go switch us to W show
after dark so our little sign on the
monitor finally oh oh oh oh oh RTX video
HDR AI upscaling oh yeah right yeah yeah
I
um uh I don't know if we're going to
make a video about it I I want to but we
have so many projects right now it's
that post CES boom yeah um it looks
super cool but I haven't gotten a chance
to try it yet basically what Nvidia is
doing is kind of like what they
announced a fairly recent I guess I was
months ago was it a year ago I don't
know whatever a while ago um kind of
like what Nvidia announced a while ago
where they are able to upscale in real
time video that you are watching on your
system if you have an Nvidia GPU was
pretty power hungry when I first tried
it but it was also really impressive
like 1080p video looked way better like
they could deblock and D noise um it it
it seemed to be the solution or a
solution to low qual low bit rate
streaming
artifacts and so this is not the
solution but a solution to the enormous
catalog of standard dynamic range
content that exist exists out there and
getting some kind of investment or
getting some kind of return out of your
investment into an HDR Monitor and an
HDR capable system with that content it
looks amazing Luke you've got it up
there uh no I was trying to test
something all right you're doing
something else entirely totally off
topic not even focused on it wasn't off
topic not even focused on hosting a show
with me it was not off topic there are
comments there are comments about how
the HDR video from Nvidia is not an HDR
I'm going to have to beat you especially
badly at Super checks tonight my you
said you want to get home early oh I'm
still playing Super check you just want
to play Super checks earlier I
mean but I was trying to figure out if
your if your device doesn't have HDR can
you not select
HDR um I I don't think you'd be able to
if you don't have an HDR display how is
it going to HDR anything that's just not
how that works so so when this person
said that they uploaded it without HDR I
was like are they actually right
I don't know I can't tell though but it
is what it is okay so you're looking at
it now okay let's look yeah
okay uh well that that's a terrible
example yeah that original video looks
like crap that could look way better in
SDR okay I mean yeah okay it's boosting
the highlights a bit dark scenes in SDR
can be difficult dark scenes in HDR can
be difficult to watch so let's see let's
see let's see let's see this is a game
too interesting
interesting I oh could it just transform
absolutely everything on your screen
into HDR wow would that have to be
banned in certain competitive
games I don't know that's pretty cool
though how does this only have 100,000
views this is sick I don't know okay I
don't know maybe we should do a video
about it I don't know the best video
you've ever seen it's pretty cool though
SDR if you turn this feature on
Nvidia won't let you enable the HDR
setting unless you enable hdr on Windows
yeah that that makes sense because your
monitor would have to be receiving
metadata from your operating system like
all Nvidia is doing is taking that SDR
content you're playing back
and interpreting it into HDR metadata
that your monitor can
understand yeah
so I think the comments are probably
right
I I I don't think they uploaded this
video in HDR which is hilarious there's
a lot of comments about it um King Fish
watch on YouTube said showcasing an AI
HDR tone mapping by converting both SDR
and HDR samples to SDR is a truly big
brain move you know what would have
worked better actually is if they filmed
the
screen believe it or not that I I forget
why it works but you would be able to
see the difference more even if they
uploaded it in SDR that makes sense it
like does sort of I guess but yeah it's
it's still weird it's mind breaking math
but no an SDR video of the same camera
filming an SDR screen and an HDR screen
does not look the same yeah you can see
that the HDR one is better don't ask me
why I'm going to go switch this over to
wo after dark okay sounds good Danny you
ready to go
okay cool I was like we don't
technically know if he's still
[Laughter]
here to bed I don't know yeah he could
be pulling one of those things where he
like works his other job during W show
oh yeah you know the whole the whole
thing where you're remote and you just
like have two jobs or whatever it's like
and then we like we switch over to
producer camera I get to switch the
window oh oh sorry yeah yeah I'm
awake I'm I'm here I'm here all right
what are we up to
Dan uh gez I guess we're doing merch
messages aren oh geez a gez I guess it's
merch message time jez oh geez you know
I haven't watched the new season without
Justin royland is it any good anyone
know no idea oh okay cool well it just
signed me out of the merch message
dashboard so that's
awesome cool do you want me to wait
nope okay hey dlll are you worried about
Labs pulling an Icarus anything you're
doing to ensure it doesn't how has it
not already pulled an
Icarus at this point we're just
rebuilding it better than
before I mean so
it's it's also
wax and to be clear that that that's we
put reinforcements in the wax that's not
that's not on that's not on Labs gotus
you got Icarus yeah all the uses yeah
that's that that's not all that's not on
Labs there's there's a lot of factors
that played into everything uh but the
reality of it is we're just going to
we're just going to keep doing our thing
guys we're going to keep improving and
you guys are going to see it and you're
either going to accept it or you're
going to put your fingers in your
ears I can't see this I can't see this
the choice is
yours do you think that the Intel plants
in Ohio will eventually make their
prices more userfriendly also how crazy
is it that them and Google have decided
to start focusing on expansion in
Ohio um I mean it's probably
cheap I I mean Micron has demonstrated
that you can build a tech Hub anywhere
we did that uh facility tour in Idaho of
all places so what's Idaho known for
chips and
chips and it's not like they don't have
super smart people there and it's not
like the people there aren't pragmatic
intelligent people who are like
hm well I could work in in Silicon
Valley where I spend you know however
many tens of thousands of dollars a year
on housing or I could live in
Idaho and spend basically nothing on
housing but still have my big penis Tech
celery gee let me think and so I think
was also like beautiful isn't it if you
if you have the kind of poll that an
Intel and a Google might then you can
basically make a tech Hub you you kind
of decide where it is so yeah it makes
it makes a ton of sense to
me lonus in Riley's Tech upgrade you
started talking about a closet PC you
once had but got sidetracked by rocket
League hype can you finish that anecdote
uh that really was the whole thing I I
had it so that when I tucked in my chair
my whole closet it was a like a twodo
like accordion style door closet it and
it would close so that if I
optimistically ever brought a girl into
my
room never happened um the there would
be no gaming
PC I mean I'd still have a cringe
futon oh man yeah my high school bedroom
was not a cool kid
bedroom yeah hey dll line us with the
recent quick bits slip up have you ever
considered that not embracing the phrase
could be detrimental to the TechLink and
game link brands also thanks for the
quality tools I don't even remember how
the whole thing started maybe I thought
it was just like arbitrary having some
of the titles called something and some
of them not called something
or maybe they used to always call them
something different back in the day
before they standard I I don't even know
but I I if anything I think it's better
for the TechLink gamelink brand that I
continue to refuse to say it because uh
they have a lot of fun trying to get me
to say it and I have a lot of fun not
saying it so uh no I think we'll keep it
up and no problem enjoy your quality
tools I recently went shopping for a
mouse and hated the experience because I
want the best one how would the
experience be for comparing peripherals
on the lab's
website um we're going to have to figure
that out yeah we're going to have a lot
of work to do on that some of it's going
to be charts and graphs if we can do
things more visually I mean that's what
we are we're a media company we're going
to do our best with it but I think what
you're going to see at the beginning is
minimum viable product which is going to
be charts and graphs and text and then
over time we're going to try to expand
on that slash utilize the labs data to
put together more compelling video
content that we think you guys will
really enjoy we shot a video today that
I'm really excited about um okay if
you're not Canadian you won't have heard
of these guys but Princess Auto is
basically the Harbor Freight of Canada
it's like where you go to get a
$3 socket set you know um might be a
little more than that but and so we were
there we were there picking up something
because we needed some cheap something
and something caught our
eye I thought it'd be a little bit more
and it is a little bit more but it's not
as much more as I expected it's 10 bucks
yeah there you go for for deep ones too
yeah exactly that's what I'm talking
about Princess Auto baby and that's 10
Canadian dollars yeah so that's about
$7 so I'm really not that far off no not
really okay it's more than double but
we're talking four bucks yeah so anyway
uh Princess Auto we were there picking
up something and uh someone snapped a
picture of what looks like a razor
display whole bunch of peripherals
upon closer inspection the brand is in
fact not snake themed but rather dart
frog so we bought them all
obviously um and I think this video is
really cool because it's a perfect
example of what we want this kind of
content to be hey here's something you
might want to know about whether it's uh
you know a diamond in the rough power
supply or a uh a motherboard that
actually impacts performance you know
Finding interesting stories and not just
doing your basic YouTuber reaction but
also backing it up with hard data so it
has a combination of what would be like
a classic LTT unboxing SL experiential
video with Labs data that helps to
quantify what it is that we're seeing
and what we're feeling really cool video
it'll be coming in a while just shot
today so probably be a couple
weeks dart frog is that the name of the
company here hold on I'll be right back
uh want to do a merch message while I uh
sure got one for me
Dan uh for you specifically Let's see we
just a general one I know hello I met
you at LTX and asked how your fitness
journey was going how's it been since
then and where are your fitness goals
for 2024 still
recomping uh yeah to be honest
uh not not as good as they were as as
Dan knows because I've been complaining
to Dan about it um I got sick for like a
really long time a very long time I was
very very sick for like two weeks um and
I was already upset about the impact
from just that and then I had this weird
you might have even noticed it on Wan
show where
sometimes something in my throat would
just get caught and I couldn't breathe
anymore and I'd have to clear it um
there was literally I think like a month
or two of that uh just on wano cuz I
would start talking emphatically and
then and then I'd have to clear it uh
and that was scary because a lot of
things that I liked doing while I was
working out might be a bit of a problem
if you very suddenly unexpectedly
couldn't breathe um so I decided to take
time off from that um I started going
again I think it was 2 or 3 weeks ago
and then had to take a break for a a
curling tournament some other things and
now I'll be I'll be going again on
Tuesday so I lost some progress but um
it's been going pretty well my my goals
for the end of the year are not really
fixed though to be honest I I do usually
like monthly or quarterly Style Style
stuff okay we're going to play a game
okay do I need to close my eyes um no
okay okay the game is called dart frog
or razor okay
okay okay maybe you do need to close
your eyes yeah I thought so okay okay so
all you're allowed to do you only get a
flash so like a blink an opposite blink
that's all you get an opposite blink oh
okay yeah got it okay
okay so you'll do we'll do a and b okay
okay go that was a really long Flash I I
didn't like see I thought it was going
to be here I really didn't see it okay
hold on hold on hold on
okay here's
me that was too long I looked for too
long I thought the first one was razor
until you showed me the second box and
then I looked for too long at the second
box okay
does dang it
Loop anyway the point is it's going to
be a good
video wow don't miss it even even from
here yeah I know wow yeah I
know wow they even I didn't actually
bring this up in the video that's
crazy but do you notice how prominently
they put the word
laser everywhere on it
oh wow wow that's a little that's a
little scummy wow everything about it is
scummy laser is very close to razor the
dart frog is very similar to the snake
combination is um yeah it's be good
honestly if I hadn't seen them yet
looking at this angle like here I
wouldn't be able to tell yeah I know I
can't make out the logo and being able
to make out the logo is honestly the
only way you can tell yeah that's wild
it's gonna be a really good video don't
miss it guys
wow uh all right Dan sry yeah lonus what
do you think of the rumor Intel is going
to kill off hyper threat
reading I mean sure I'm not a CPU
architect if they think that's a good
idea then it's probably not a terrible
idea if there's other ways that they can
deliver the performance their customers
expect um this is another thing we've
got a video coming on recently so we
finally covered meteor Lake we look at
integrated GPU performance we talk about
the new core Ultra branding and one of
the things I
say this is not investment advice I am
not a financial advisor is long-term
Intel just took a beating okay so I'm
going to say it again this is not
Financial advice I'm not a financial
adviser um don't come angrily screaming
back if this goes for until just took a
beating but I love where they're looking
longterm um I don't because the igpu
stuff or just in general in general I
don't know if they're going to be you
know five bagger or if they're going to
lose all your money I don't know I'm I'm
not a financial adviser uh but I talk
about this in in the video I I love
their tiled their first shot at a tiled
uh CPU are they gluing stuff together
now they're gluing it real good really
like it um oh
boy J 529 says I'm buying Boeing what do
you think lonus I think I'm not a
financial adviser that's what I
think
um yeah cool anyway yeah if they if they
say look we're not going to do
hyperthreading we're going to do
efficient cores or we're going to have
these okay so they have new efficient
cores low power efficient cores that are
on um like the S so tile rather than the
compute tile and what's really cool
about these is they can light these ones
up to like handle a Windows update in
the background or whatever and they
don't even have to have the main cores
turn on at all like okay not at all is a
bit of an overstatement but that's cool
though yeah it's pretty good for power
savings to be clear AMD is still very
competitive right now and we're going to
see new stuff from them hopefully in the
nearish future I mean 780m their mobile
GPU has been around for a while um rna4
though like where you at dog um so we'll
see we'll see but I I am sure they're
not down and out I am liking where Intel
is heading I really like their move into
um contract manufacturing for third
parties hi guys will the stubby with
Black Shaft get back into stock or is
the notification option more like a poll
thanks for an update we've never said
never um I think we've always said not
if we can't figure out the quality
issues with our black
finishes okay to be clear this is
actually a different thing I'm just
teasing uh this is standardized aluminum
and we would not make a screwdriver
shaft on something that you can really
torque um out of aluminum um we are
still exploring black finish options we
have not settled on anything that we
would consider to be acceptable to bring
back black shafts
yet hey W.D pronounced d d I can't see
that uh could you explain how YouTube
premium works with monetization on
YouTube I'm going to make
basically just like YouTube shares ad
Revenue with the creators that you watch
YouTube shares premium Revenue with the
creators that you watch and it's divied
up according to watch time so if you
were to watch say for
example 100 S and happiness one minute
videos or if you were to sit through a
third of a wow we would get half of it
and cide and happiness would get half of
it half of the allocation that YouTube
gives to creators which is I it's either
60 or 70% I can't
remember are you still using Theo Joe's
comment moderation tool if so is it
working no um honestly right now most of
our comment moderation is me and chewy
our community coordinator um it seems to
have helped a fair bit that every time I
see a pornbot or a Spam bot or a
spectacularly stupid person I'm just
shadowbanning them and I think it's made
at least the main Channel less of a
Target I definitely see some more dumery
on the sub channels um but we just
didn't we didn't end up building a
process that allowed us to run it
forever and got distracted and hopefully
YouTube Just fixes their stuff at some
point uh it's possible that the overall
spam is just down on the platform and it
has nothing to do with any of our
moderation but um we're we definitely do
see it and we're definitely stamping it
down whenever we do I don't think
they'll ever fix it yeah that's fair I
think it's going to get worse sooner
than gets better I I was uh a a friend
of mine linked me a Twitter thread
recently which was a very long Twitter
thread that it took me a while of
reading into because I was like he
wouldn't have sent this to me with no
reason but he didn't explain why he was
like just read this continue reading
through these tweets and then eventually
I realized it was a back and forth
conversation between a very large amount
of fake AI accounts but they were not
promoting anything they were just
building account cred a conversation
while they so so they were
incubating and I was like what the heck
because it seems you know you know how a
lot of AI output text is like too
clean it's too like kind of generic y it
was all like that and the conversation
started kind of looping a little bit and
I was like what's going on because
they're just riffing off of the previous
tweets and there's realistically only so
long that you could really do that and
be original so they stopped being able
to be original right and it was just
like whoa it was it was
very kind of eerie to read but
yeah anyways moving on next good evening
Duke Lan and DUS from Texas can we get
an update on backpack return I've been
waiting to return mine for over a month
now also how is shipping being handled
uh that's a great question and I do not
know exactly um the last thing I want to
do is give you any false information but
what I can do is get Dan to send a
followup
and um hopefully have an answer for you
guys next week Dan can we do
that yep I'll send a message to Nick or
better if we don't talk about it next
week then hopefully you'll have already
heard from our customer care team so I
won't need to talk about it on wow that
would be the
ideal uh yeah one moment okay there we
go I'll just leave that one there for
the second um hi lldd how do you feel
about Cloud flare I don't like that they
control so much of the internet but I
still use them because their products
and prices are good almost free for what
I need actually yeah honestly
for for like non-large infrastructure
company users their pricing is insane um
to the point where like not using them
for a lot of things is is just kind of
like weird and Ill advised um we use
them fairly heavily for vaud delivery on
float plane um I could complain about
that a lot um considering they're kind
of like in action on fixing VOD delivery
to uh most notably Australia and Germany
but other places as well
um we need to do more to fix that on our
end but what we need to do to fix that
on our end is to use more places than
just Cloud flare more actively um which
is unfortunate because you would hope
that they would just do better at that
um their core product is insanely good
um and and it's
it's yeah I don't even really know what
else to say their their core product is
just insanely good it works um the fact
that they don't have more outages is
like wild um what a crazy company
sometimes they can be frustrating to
deal with um I'm not a fan as I've
talked on on Wow before of calls where
you just rotate your person that is the
representative of that company every
once in a while and they always want to
have onboarding calls and it's really
not productive for your company that
they just keep cycling people constantly
constantly constantly constantly
constantly and I wish that would
wouldn't happen so much um and I wish
they would care more about their side
products but their core product is just
wildly good um and their side products
are are for the most part pretty solid
as well um but yeah I don't
know it's never really great when one
company has so much market share in an
area but um I will say while that goes
poorly in a lot of Realms Cloud flare
has
seemingly kept the quality of their core
product up uh quite well so I'll give
them
that let's see what we got here hey LL
minus D picking up another Wan hoodie my
8-year-old son loves the way my Wan
hoodie looks and wants to match when
have you found your kids wanting
something just because you had one
first every time seriously every single
time I pick up my
Ally my kids are like can I play and I'm
like I use
this maybe a couple times a week it sits
idle the entire rest of the time just
use it just when you when you have your
screen time just let me know and use
it they only want it when I'm holding it
food too like my kids are never like oh
can I have a salad but if I'm eating
Greek salad they come along they take
all the tomatoes and all the feted
cheese out it's
like it's the best
part okay let's see what else we got
um hey lonus great job promoting
screwdriver bits and I'm not going to be
like I'm not going to be like no don't
eat
vegetables yes tomato is technically a
fruit calm down
Reddit but like Banana's a berry
man sorry weird sorry Dan sorry Dan
sorry I thought bananas were actually
herbs that doesn't check
out yeah whatever uh great job on Pro
great job on promoting screwdriver bits
I just bought all six sets before the
price goes up not that this is you but
what's the worst company to threaten
price increases as promotions okay I
carried this but I couldn't think of one
but I'm sure there's got to be examples
of companies being like here's our big
sale you can have the old price before
we raise it yeah I guarantee you it's
got to be a thing like especially like
software as a service companies and
stuff like that hey lock in now or we're
going to raise the prices hahaa got
them so I was hoping chat could maybe
pitch us a few Autodesk all early oh
Early Access games the entire
Kickstarter platform okay didn't think
of that one pretty good that's pretty
good I came up with that one yay that's
literally kickstarter's whole thing yeah
well not really but that's how most
kickstarters work you you get it for
however much off now but our our our
actual real price is coming later
apparently Disney plus did it in
October Chom did it a while ago
apparently
um Tesla has Tesla done
that did they do that that one year when
they were trying to hit a Target before
end of year I have no
idea that does sound kind of familiar
meta Quest 2 okay there's lots of
examples of this yeah this is totally a
thing yeah super interesting a lot of
isps apparently do it okay internet
access should only go down in price
that's that's stupid Hulu apparently oh
wow wow you guys are okay you guys are
coming up with lots of examples Okay
cool so this is a thing all right
Dan hey Luke and lonus and possibly Jake
will you do another month challenge if
or when battle mage comes
out cheers do you want to redo the arc
challenge given that you are currently
experiencing GPU related crashes and it
is making your oh I'm I'm experiencing
all related crashes that's fair um nice
nice computer
lonus you know what else is crashing the
NCI sign PC it blue screens like once a
day need to solve it I have me test okay
I already turned off Expo I've already
turned off like S3 like I I decided to
run me test overnight because at least
some of the errors I've been getting are
reporting something that sounds like
probably memory yeah um and it defaults
to my far-left monitor I have three
monitors yeah it defaults for my far
left monitor whatever run the test go to
bed wake up in the morning all my my
monitors are black mhm like oh okay
Shake mouse keyboard stuff so see like
did it boot into Windows somehow and go
to sleep or does m test like screen off
at a certain point nothing's responding
I'm
like so it crashed okay power off
computer power computer back on um okay
crap it booted into mest again whatever
uh or no it it nothing happens no no
yeah no it booted into m test again okay
turn it off unplug the USB whatever get
back into windows
oh my left screen didn't turn on what's
Happening
oh Emma tried to very nicely save my
screen from burning and turned the
monitor off oh nice so I just turned it
off so I have no idea what happened to
the test cool
so I ran it before I left so hopefully
when I get home I'll know if there's
memory problems or
not so um H I hope this isn't too much
of a spoiler
but uh probably shouldn't tell them I
shouldn't tell them okay make sure you
watch the video on his new build because
um I think the title's going to be
something like I have to get out of this
contract or something like that it
doesn't get you out of the contract
anyway the point is that
um let's just say his troubles may be
related to the 10 CPU test video we just
did yeah I've been wondering that
actually h
hopefully that's not it hey
Dan uh yeah
sure
um this is weird uh years ago you talked
about becoming a real company that would
survive without you and Aon inheritance
tax was at the problem you hope to have
a good plan someday do you now
appreciate you guys
um I've talked about this a number of
times pretty much every time I do it
gets misunderstood or construed in some
way remember backpack warranty gate when
I went on that very very long thing
where I was like well anything that we
set up should be something that is
resilient enough that it is not just
based on the Goodwill of you know trust
me bro um you know so that in the event
that I died or whatever it would still
be in place and we're still trying to
figure out exactly what that would look
like uh at the end of the day people
said they don't want anything that
actually has any kind of teeth they just
want us to give them a piece of paper
that says okay yeah here's what it is um
it's been really interesting watching
the discourse shift on what I said um
now it seems like most people get it all
I was saying was that the warranty you
have from whoever it is you have it from
is only as good as their willingness to
fulfill
it because they can drag ass they can
just
disappear
um there's plenty of companies that
change warranty or uh claim warranty
violations for whatever BS reason any
any warranty policy difficult to prove
any warranty policy that would make it
past any lawyer worth their salt is
going to have uh a clause in there that
basically says yeah the whole thing's at
our discretion anyway um and so the
point I had been trying to make way back
then was that we wanted to
it right as long as I am here you know
whatever there's no way that I could
screw you over because it would cause
outrage proved my point Thank you guys
um and so I don't know uh coming coming
back to your actual question I I don't
know how to answer this without you
know without it being misunderstood um
inheritance tax is a problem
um but I don't think that it will impact
our ability to be a real company that
will survive without us I think there
are solutions um and it doesn't have to
be that you know our kids inherit it or
whatever else in
fact I I haven't seen any indication
that it would even be remotely
appropriate for our kids to inherit the
company uh the last thing I would want
to see is for it to just be
and just some random you know Media
Company acquisition holding Cod you know
take it and and and and you know screw
it up right um but we do have some ideas
I I don't think I'm at a point now where
I'm ready to say exactly how it would
work yes we we do have trusts in Canada
that is a thing that exists that is an
option for um tax-free inheritance but
there are a ton of limitations around
them even understands it better than I
do it's it's not really viable if we
plan to run the company for our lives
and then um have some kind of sucession
plan that involved our kids but I I
don't know that it would um Urban fervor
says I like how Matt Pat is doing it I
actually haven't seen his approach wild
how many YouTubers are just like
retiring um I uh I called it on Tom
Scott though I was like dude it's my age
what he talking about retiring and he's
already revised the title of his video
and been like yo people for people who
didn't make it to the second sentence of
my video it's I didn't mean like forever
I mean he even he even said in um he's
just he's he had he had a commitment to
a certain amount of videos he's not
doing weekly videos yeah yeah okay I
mean he did clickbait it a little bit
which is funny cuz I he and I have had
some conversations about you know
clickability and and whatever and it's
like okay
dude cuz that was pretty clickbait right
there but sure
um okay apparently Matt Pat's sold the
channel a year or two ago he's fulfilled
his contract and stepping away so that's
basically what we would have done if we
had taken our offer yeah I just I wasn't
ready
yet um it's possible that we could do
something like that but I
don't looking back at it now the money
would have been very good especially
considering the challenges that we've
faced this year right I would have been
almost ready to walk away now like okay
yeah whatever this is your mess to clean
up now apparently um so the money would
have worked out really well but what I
don't think would have worked out really
well is the company I don't see why they
wouldn't have just gone okay well this
didn't work out and moved on to their
next acquisition right and I think that
it would have really impacted the people
who work here and the people who really
do care about what is it that we're
trying to do yeah so I'm I'm really
happy we didn't do it we're we've still
we've got a lot of Unfinished
Business hi dll is there a product that
still exists today named after an
outdated or expected but once Innovative
feature take Windows for example
symbolizing simultaneous open software
windows I wasn't sure on this
one I think Windows is a pretty good
example I'm sure there's got to be other
examples I don't know like RCA cable no
not really sort of um
a that still exists today oh hold on a
second um um um um um
movies oh we were just talking about
this we were talking about this in the
writing that's really that's a really
good example you know like the Takis the
movies you know back when moving
pictures you know the movies we don't
even think about that
anymore would this be the streames or
films even I mean anything to do with
production pretty much yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah Fujifilm someone said as a as
a company name the movie that's a
company though that's not a product the
movies though yeah I didn't realize it
was product specific but yeah okay this
is not really a product either but get
over
it
yeah what do you think about Cooler
Master killing the original spec nr200
and completely killing the nr200 air
cooler compatibility I did not
understand this question I mean nr200 is
presumably a case yeah um I small form
factor case I had not been following any
of this
drama eventually you're going to stop
making a product right so like why is
this um completely killing the nr200 air
cooler compatibility that I don't what
are they talking about I don't know not
sure I mean yeah you got to have kind of
a you got to have kind of a target with
your product right so if you're if
you're basically targeting water coolers
and you've got kind of an idea for how
the system should be built there's so
many options for AOS I don't really
think you can look at that and go like
rude um it's a bummer if you wanted to
do an aircooled nr200 build but these
things kind of happen and if there's
enough demand I'm sure they'll bring it
back and if there isn't enough demand I
guess they knew something you didn't
yeah hey. dll any updated thoughts
regarding the process of the ex Escapist
team over its second wind and their
transparency publishing Det detailed
monthly revenue
reports that is a super super cool
transparency commitment um I don't think
I've ever seen anything like that from a
from a from a private group like a
private
company
um viewership looks consistent pretty in
the range for what they were doing
before the subscriber count um it also
looks very similar to what they're doing
before like fully rambl Matic which is
um full punctuation yeah man there's so
many things we made videos about this
week we have a reference to this that I
think you guys will find quite funny in
one of our videos oh um yeah I'm not
going to I'm not going to spoil it watch
every video haahha got him got um okay
where where are they publishing this I
assume they have uh okay here a patreon
it's not like they could have been on
float plane or whatever no problem don't
don't bother reaching out to us it
doesn't matter uh the point is I guess
they probably have some articles or
something I guess you would have to be a
patron to see them I don't I don't know
where they publish these things look at
that
support 14,18 paid members at that's
awesome 8,660 a month good on you guys
it's a million bucks a year that's
fantastic that's fantastic good job very
cool really rooting for these guys uh
the income report is in the YouTube post
section apparently so like Community
posts I guess oh yeah okay we're two
weeks out from when we started taking
salaries hey good for you guys freaking
a that's wicked love to see
it premium Discord all right whatever
I'm just rooting for them so good job
you guys cool that's all I have to say
about that
yeah mad respect hey
D the line is how's the relationship of
long-term money per view compared to uh
compared between an LTT video one that
could be relevant at any time and a tech
or gamelink video where it really
matters to watch right now uh viewership
falls off a cliff for anything news
related I don't even know how Google
quite tells what's news related and
what's not but they do uh they can tell
and uh there are some LTT videos I mean
we made a we made a video reacting to
our most profitable videos uh way back
when and almost all of them were LTT
videos with a ton of views or LT live
stream archives that had monstrous watch
time so they made a ton of money from
YouTube premium uh for something like
TechLink or gamelink basically we're
just relying on whatever it gets within
the first couple of weeks and there's
almost no long-term tail on any of it if
I were to take our our entire Content
Library and sort by I can't sort by most
Revenue so whatever I guess um I won't
be able to give you any additional
information but it will be way less way
less
and I guess if you want to read this one
you can I don't know how you no I don't
think we're supposed to I think um can
you just flag that for someone to get in
touch with Sergio Sergio I I've sent it
to stepen okay Sergio we are
acknowledging your message hey thanks
for the merch message and I'm going to
Archive it so it doesn't show anywhere
cool
umam a couple coming yeah Adam asks if I
have any issues with games crashing on
the RG Ally I really haven't but I
haven't played a huge variety of games
on mine so my my experience may not
mirror your own and James asks if we
have any Insider news on Steam deck B
button sticking issues no I do not I've
still been on my Ally it's uh the the
the better performance has kept me but
there are definitely games I'd rather
play on the better screen um I'm just
not playing any of them right now um hey
thanks
Christopher appreciate you showing that
don't agree but hey your message is
going to come up in the scrolly thing
and that's it we will see you again next
week same bad time same bad Channel how
did this last for three and a half hours
we had like four
topics it's just is what it is we
reacted to our own video which I would
be really interested to see the metrics
on maybe we should do that more content
setion bye there it
is come on man say the line world's
slowest
byy got
him oh wait we're not going to be able
to hear Dan yeah I'm going to put those
back
on we we both took our headphones off
we're like uh wait we can't talk to Dan
cuz he's like you know there oh wow
vessie